# Research Report: HFT Hawkes & Propagator Models

## Central limit theorem for a partially observed interacting system of Hawkes processes I: subcritical case
- **Date**: 2026-01-03
- **ID**: [2601.01189v1](2601.01189v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2601.01189v1_Central_limit_theorem_for_a_pa.pdf)
- **Summary**: We consider a system of $N$ Hawkes processes and observe the actions of a subpopulation of size $K \le N$ up to time $t$, where $K$ is large. The influence relationships between each pair of individuals are modeled by i.i.d.Bernoulli($p$) random variables, where $p \in [0,1]$ is an unknown parameter...

## Diffusive Limit of Hawkes Driven Order Book Dynamics With Liquidity Migration
- **Date**: 2025-11-22
- **ID**: [2511.18117v1](2511.18117v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2511.18117v1_Diffusive_Limit_of_Hawkes_Driv.pdf)
- **Summary**: This paper develops a theoretical mesoscopic model of the limit order book driven by multivariate Hawkes processes, designed to capture temporal self-excitation and the spatial propagation of order flow across price levels. In contrast to classical zero-intelligence or Poisson based queueing models,...

## An Impulse Control Approach to Market Making in a Hawkes LOB Market
- **Date**: 2025-10-30
- **ID**: [2510.26438v2](2510.26438v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2510.26438v2_An_Impulse_Control_Approach_to.pdf)
- **Summary**: We study the optimal Market Making problem in a Limit Order Book (LOB) market simulated using a high-fidelity, mutually exciting Hawkes process. Departing from traditional Brownian-driven mid-price models, our setup captures key microstructural properties such as queue dynamics, inter-arrival cluste...

## Jump risk premia in the presence of clustered jumps
- **Date**: 2025-10-24
- **ID**: [2510.21297v1](2510.21297v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2510.21297v1_Jump_risk_premia_in_the_presen.pdf)
- **Summary**: This paper presents an option pricing model that incorporates clustered jumps using a bivariate Hawkes process. The process captures both self- and cross-excitation of positive and negative jumps, enabling the model to generate return dynamics with asymmetric, time-varying skewness and to produce po...

## A Deterministic Limit Order Book Simulator with Hawkes-Driven Order Flow
- **Date**: 2025-10-09
- **ID**: [2510.08085v1](2510.08085v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2510.08085v1_A_Deterministic_Limit_Order_Bo.pdf)
- **Summary**: We present a reproducible research framework for market microstructure combining a deterministic C++ limit order book (LOB) simulator with stochastic order flow generated by multivariate marked Hawkes processes. The paper derives full stability and ergodicity proofs for both linear and nonlinear Haw...

## Nonparametric Estimation of Self- and Cross-Impact
- **Date**: 2025-10-08
- **ID**: [2510.06879v1](2510.06879v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2510.06879v1_Nonparametric_Estimation_of_Se.pdf)
- **Summary**: We introduce an offline nonparametric estimator for concave multi-asset propagator models based on a dataset of correlated price trajectories and metaorders. Compared to parametric models, our framework avoids parameter explosion in the multi-asset case and yields confidence bounds for the estimator...

## Multivariate Quadratic Hawkes Processes -- Part II: Non-Parametric Empirical Calibration
- **Date**: 2025-09-25
- **ID**: [2509.21244v1](2509.21244v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2509.21244v1_Multivariate_Quadratic_Hawkes_.pdf)
- **Summary**: This is the second part of our work on Multivariate Quadratic Hawkes (MQHawkes) Processes, devoted to the calibration of the model defined and studied analytically in Aubrun, C., Benzaquen, M., & Bouchaud, J. P., Quantitative Finance, 23(5), 741-758 (2023). We propose a non-parametric calibration me...

## Asymmetric super-Heston-rough volatility model with Zumbach effect as scaling limit of quadratic Hawkes processes
- **Date**: 2025-08-22
- **ID**: [2508.16566v1](2508.16566v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2508.16566v1_Asymmetric_super-Heston-rough_.pdf)
- **Summary**: Hawkes processes were first introduced to obtain microscopic models for the rough volatility observed in asset prices. Scaling limits of such processes leads to the rough-Heston model that describes the macroscopic behavior. Blanc et al. (2017) show that Time-reversal asymmetry (TRA) or the Zumbach ...

## ARL-Based Multi-Action Market Making with Hawkes Processes and Variable Volatility
- **Date**: 2025-08-07
- **ID**: [2508.16589v1](2508.16589v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2508.16589v1_ARL-Based_Multi-Action_Market_.pdf)
- **Summary**: We advance market-making strategies by integrating Adversarial Reinforcement Learning (ARL), Hawkes Processes, and variable volatility levels while also expanding the action space available to market makers (MMs). To enhance the adaptability and robustness of these strategies -- which can quote alwa...

## The Subtle Interplay between Square-root Impact, Order Imbalance & Volatility: A Unifying Framework
- **Date**: 2025-06-09
- **ID**: [2506.07711v5](2506.07711v5)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2506.07711v5_The_Subtle_Interplay_between_S.pdf)
- **Summary**: In this work, we aim to reconcile several apparently contradictory observations in market microstructure: is the famous "square-root law" of metaorder impact, which decays with time, compatible with the random-walk nature of prices and the linear impact of order imbalances? Can one entirely explain ...

## Stochastic Price Dynamics in Response to Order Flow Imbalance: Evidence from CSI 300 Index Futures
- **Date**: 2025-05-23
- **ID**: [2505.17388v1](2505.17388v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2505.17388v1_Stochastic_Price_Dynamics_in_R.pdf)
- **Summary**: We conduct modeling of the price dynamics following order flow imbalance in market microstructure and apply the model to the analysis of Chinese CSI 300 Index Futures. There are three findings. The first is that the order flow imbalance is analogous to a shock to the market. Unlike the common practi...

## Learning the Spoofability of Limit Order Books With Interpretable Probabilistic Neural Networks
- **Date**: 2025-04-22
- **ID**: [2504.15908v1](2504.15908v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2504.15908v1_Learning_the_Spoofability_of_L.pdf)
- **Summary**: This paper investigates real-time detection of spoofing activity in limit order books, focusing on cryptocurrency centralized exchanges. We first introduce novel order flow variables based on multi-scale Hawkes processes that account both for the size and placement distance from current best prices ...

## Optimal Execution in Intraday Energy Markets under Hawkes Processes with Transient Impact
- **Date**: 2025-04-14
- **ID**: [2504.10282v2](2504.10282v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2504.10282v2_Optimal_Execution_in_Intraday_.pdf)
- **Summary**: This paper investigates optimal execution strategies in intraday energy markets through a mutually exciting Hawkes process model. Calibrated to data from the German intraday electricity market, the model effectively captures key empirical features, including intra-session volatility, distinct intrad...

## A stochastic volatility approximation for a tick-by-tick price model with mean-field interaction
- **Date**: 2025-04-04
- **ID**: [2504.03445v2](2504.03445v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2504.03445v2_A_stochastic_volatility_approx.pdf)
- **Summary**: We consider a tick-by-tick model of price formation, in which buy and sell orders are modeled as self-exciting point processes (Hawkes process), similar to the one in [Hoffmann, Bacry, Delattre, Muzy, Modelling microstructure noise with mutually exciting point processes, Quantitative Finance, 2013] ...

## Rough Heston model as the scaling limit of bivariate cumulative heavy-tailed INAR processes: Weak-error bounds and option pricing
- **Date**: 2025-03-24
- **ID**: [2503.18259v5](2503.18259v5)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2503.18259v5_Rough_Heston_model_as_the_scal.pdf)
- **Summary**: This paper links nearly unstable, heavy-tailed \emph{bivariate cumulative} INAR($\infty$) processes to the rough Heston model via a discrete scaling limit, extending scaling-limit techniques beyond Hawkes processes and providing a microstructural mechanism for rough volatility and leverage effect. C...

## Modelling High-Frequency Data with Bivariate Hawkes Processes: Power-Law vs. Exponential Kernels
- **Date**: 2025-03-19
- **ID**: [2503.14814v1](2503.14814v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2503.14814v1_Modelling_High-Frequency_Data_.pdf)
- **Summary**: This study explores the application of Hawkes processes to model high-frequency data in the context of limit order books. Two distinct Hawkes-based models are proposed and analyzed: one utilizing exponential kernels and the other employing power-law kernels. These models are implemented within a biv...

## Fredholm Approach to Nonlinear Propagator Models
- **Date**: 2025-03-06
- **ID**: [2503.04323v1](2503.04323v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2503.04323v1_Fredholm_Approach_to_Nonlinear.pdf)
- **Summary**: We formulate and solve an optimal trading problem with alpha signals, where transactions induce a nonlinear transient price impact described by a general propagator model, including power-law decay. Using a variational approach, we demonstrate that the optimal trading strategy satisfies a nonlinear ...

## Event-Based Limit Order Book Simulation under a Neural Hawkes Process: Application in Market-Making
- **Date**: 2025-02-24
- **ID**: [2502.17417v1](2502.17417v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2502.17417v1_Event-Based_Limit_Order_Book_S.pdf)
- **Summary**: In this paper, we propose an event-driven Limit Order Book (LOB) model that captures twelve of the most observed LOB events in exchange-based financial markets. To model these events, we propose using the state-of-the-art Neural Hawkes process, a more robust alternative to traditional Hawkes process...

## High-Frequency Market Manipulation Detection with a Markov-modulated Hawkes process
- **Date**: 2025-02-06
- **ID**: [2502.04027v1](2502.04027v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2502.04027v1_High-Frequency_Market_Manipula.pdf)
- **Summary**: This work focuses on a self-exciting point process defined by a Hawkes-like intensity and a switching mechanism based on a hidden Markov chain. Previous works in such a setting assume constant intensities between consecutive events. We extend the model to general Hawkes excitation kernels that are p...

## In-Context Operator Learning for Linear Propagator Models
- **Date**: 2025-01-25
- **ID**: [2501.15106v1](2501.15106v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2501.15106v1_In-Context_Operator_Learning_f.pdf)
- **Summary**: We study operator learning in the context of linear propagator models for optimal order execution problems with transient price impact à la Bouchaud et al. (2004) and Gatheral (2010). Transient price impact persists and decays over time according to some propagator kernel. Specifically, we propose t...

## Option Pricing with a Compound CARMA(p,q)-Hawkes
- **Date**: 2024-12-19
- **ID**: [2412.15172v1](2412.15172v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2412.15172v1_Option_Pricing_with_a_Compound.pdf)
- **Summary**: A self-exciting point process with a continuous-time autoregressive moving average intensity process, named CARMA(p,q)-Hawkes model, has recently been introduced. The model generalizes the Hawkes process by substituting the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck intensity with a CARMA(p,q) model where the associated st...

## Self-Exciting Random Evolutions (SEREs) and their Applications (Version 2)
- **Date**: 2024-12-13
- **ID**: [2412.10592v2](2412.10592v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2412.10592v2_Self-Exciting_Random_Evolution.pdf)
- **Summary**: This paper is devoted to the study of a new class of random evolutions (RE), so-called self-exciting random evolutions (SEREs), and their applications. We also introduce a new random process $x(t)$ such that it is based on a superposition of a Markov chain $x_n$ and a Hawkes process $N(t),$ i.e., $x...

## Optimal Execution under Incomplete Information
- **Date**: 2024-11-07
- **ID**: [2411.04616v1](2411.04616v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2411.04616v1_Optimal_Execution_under_Incomp.pdf)
- **Summary**: We study optimal liquidation strategies under partial information for a single asset within a finite time horizon. We propose a model tailored for high-frequency trading, capturing price formation driven solely by order flow through mutually stimulating marked Hawkes processes. The model assumes a l...

## No Tick-Size Too Small: A General Method for Modelling Small Tick Limit Order Books
- **Date**: 2024-10-11
- **ID**: [2410.08744v3](2410.08744v3)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2410.08744v3_No_Tick-Size_Too_Small:_A_Gene.pdf)
- **Summary**: Tick-sizes not only influence the granularity of the price formation process but also affect market agents' behavior. We investigate the disparity in the microstructural properties of the Limit Order Book (LOB) across a basket of assets with different relative tick-sizes. A key contribution of this ...

## Variance-Hawkes Process and its Application to Energy Markets
- **Date**: 2024-10-10
- **ID**: [2410.08420v1](2410.08420v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2410.08420v1_Variance-Hawkes_Process_and_it.pdf)
- **Summary**: We define a new model using a Hawkes process as a subordinator in a standard Brownian motion. We demonstrate that this Hawkes subordinated Brownian motion or more succinctly, variance-Hawkes process can be fit to 2018 and 2019 natural gas and crude oil front-month futures log returns. This variance-...

## Forecasting High Frequency Order Flow Imbalance
- **Date**: 2024-08-07
- **ID**: [2408.03594v1](2408.03594v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2408.03594v1_Forecasting_High_Frequency_Ord.pdf)
- **Summary**: Market information events are generated intermittently and disseminated at high speeds in real-time. Market participants consume this high-frequency data to build limit order books, representing the current bids and offers for a given asset. The arrival processes, or the order flow of bid and offer ...

## Pricing VIX options under the Heston-Hawkes stochastic volatility model
- **Date**: 2024-06-19
- **ID**: [2406.13508v1](2406.13508v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2406.13508v1_Pricing_VIX_options_under_the_.pdf)
- **Summary**: We derive a semi-analytical pricing formula for European VIX call options under the Heston-Hawkes stochastic volatility model introduced in arXiv:2210.15343. This arbitrage-free model incorporates the volatility clustering feature by adding an independent compound Hawkes process to the Heston volati...

## Price-Aware Automated Market Makers: Models Beyond Brownian Prices and Static Liquidity
- **Date**: 2024-05-06
- **ID**: [2405.03496v3](2405.03496v3)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2405.03496v3_Price-Aware_Automated_Market_M.pdf)
- **Summary**: In this paper, we introduce a suite of models for price-aware automated market making platforms willing to optimize their quotes. These models incorporate advanced price dynamics, including stochastic volatility, jumps, and microstructural price models based on Hawkes processes. Additionally, we add...

## Functional Limit Theorems for Hawkes Processes
- **Date**: 2024-01-21
- **ID**: [2401.11495v3](2401.11495v3)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2401.11495v3_Functional_Limit_Theorems_for_.pdf)
- **Summary**: We prove that the long-run behavior of Hawkes processes is fully determined by the average number and the dispersion of child events. For subcritical processes we provide FLLNs and FCLTs under minimal conditions on the kernel of the process with the precise form of the limit theorems depending stron...

## Neural Hawkes: Non-Parametric Estimation in High Dimension and Causality Analysis in Cryptocurrency Markets
- **Date**: 2024-01-17
- **ID**: [2401.09361v3](2401.09361v3)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2401.09361v3_Neural_Hawkes:_Non-Parametric_.pdf)
- **Summary**: We propose a novel approach to marked Hawkes kernel inference which we name the moment-based neural Hawkes estimation method. Hawkes processes are fully characterized by their first and second order statistics through a Fredholm integral equation of the second kind. Using recent advances in solving ...

## Limit Order Book Dynamics and Order Size Modelling Using Compound Hawkes Process
- **Date**: 2023-12-14
- **ID**: [2312.08927v5](2312.08927v5)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2312.08927v5_Limit_Order_Book_Dynamics_and_.pdf)
- **Summary**: Hawkes Process has been used to model Limit Order Book (LOB) dynamics in several ways in the literature however the focus has been limited to capturing the inter-event times while the order size is usually assumed to be constant. We propose a novel methodology of using Compound Hawkes Process for th...

## Convergence of Heavy-Tailed Hawkes Processes and the Microstructure of Rough Volatility
- **Date**: 2023-12-14
- **ID**: [2312.08784v2](2312.08784v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2312.08784v2_Convergence_of_Heavy-Tailed_Ha.pdf)
- **Summary**: We establish the weak convergence of the intensity of a nearly-unstable Hawkes process with heavy-tailed kernel. Our result is used to derive a scaling limit for a financial market model where orders to buy or sell an asset arrive according to a Hawkes process with power-law kernel. After suitable r...

## Uncovering Market Disorder and Liquidity Trends Detection
- **Date**: 2023-10-13
- **ID**: [2310.09273v1](2310.09273v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2310.09273v1_Uncovering_Market_Disorder_and.pdf)
- **Summary**: The primary objective of this paper is to conceive and develop a new methodology to detect notable changes in liquidity within an order-driven market. We study a market liquidity model which allows us to dynamically quantify the level of liquidity of a traded asset using its limit order book data. T...

## An Offline Learning Approach to Propagator Models
- **Date**: 2023-09-06
- **ID**: [2309.02994v1](2309.02994v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2309.02994v1_An_Offline_Learning_Approach_t.pdf)
- **Summary**: We consider an offline learning problem for an agent who first estimates an unknown price impact kernel from a static dataset, and then designs strategies to liquidate a risky asset while creating transient price impact. We propose a novel approach for a nonparametric estimation of the propagator fr...

## Investigating Short-Term Dynamics in Green Bond Markets
- **Date**: 2023-08-23
- **ID**: [2308.12179v1](2308.12179v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2308.12179v1_Investigating_Short-Term_Dynam.pdf)
- **Summary**: The paper investigates the effect of the label green in bond markets from the lens of the trading activity. The idea is that jumps in the dynamics of returns have a specific memory nature that can be well represented through a self-exciting process. Specifically, using Hawkes processes where the int...

## Estimation of an Order Book Dependent Hawkes Process for Large Datasets
- **Date**: 2023-07-18
- **ID**: [2307.09077v1](2307.09077v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2307.09077v1_Estimation_of_an_Order_Book_De.pdf)
- **Summary**: A point process for event arrivals in high frequency trading is presented. The intensity is the product of a Hawkes process and high dimensional functions of covariates derived from the order book. Conditions for stationarity of the process are stated. An algorithm is presented to estimate the model...

## Statistical Learning with Sublinear Regret of Propagator Models
- **Date**: 2023-01-12
- **ID**: [2301.05157v2](2301.05157v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2301.05157v2_Statistical_Learning_with_Subl.pdf)
- **Summary**: We consider a class of learning problems in which an agent liquidates a risky asset while creating both transient price impact driven by an unknown convolution propagator and linear temporary price impact with an unknown parameter. We characterize the trader's performance as maximization of a revenu...

## Change of measure in a Heston-Hawkes stochastic volatility model
- **Date**: 2022-10-27
- **ID**: [2210.15343v1](2210.15343v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2210.15343v1_Change_of_measure_in_a_Heston-.pdf)
- **Summary**: We consider the stochastic volatility model obtained by adding a compound Hawkes process to the volatility of the well-known Heston model. A Hawkes process is a self-exciting counting process with many applications in mathematical finance, insurance, epidemiology, seismology and other fields. We pro...

## Multivariate Hawkes-based Models in LOB: European, Spread and Basket Option Pricing
- **Date**: 2022-09-15
- **ID**: [2209.07621v1](2209.07621v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2209.07621v1_Multivariate_Hawkes-based_Mode.pdf)
- **Summary**: In this paper, we consider pricing of European options and spread options for Hawkes-based model for the limit order book. We introduce multivariate Hawkes process and the multivariable general compound Hawkes process. Exponential multivariate general compound Hawkes processes and limit theorems for...

## Deep Reinforcement Learning for Market Making Under a Hawkes Process-Based Limit Order Book Model
- **Date**: 2022-07-20
- **ID**: [2207.09951v1](2207.09951v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2207.09951v1_Deep_Reinforcement_Learning_fo.pdf)
- **Summary**: The stochastic control problem of optimal market making is among the central problems in quantitative finance. In this paper, a deep reinforcement learning-based controller is trained on a weakly consistent, multivariate Hawkes process-based limit order book simulator to obtain market making control...

## Multivariate Quadratic Hawkes Processes -- Part I: Theoretical Analysis
- **Date**: 2022-06-21
- **ID**: [2206.10419v3](2206.10419v3)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2206.10419v3_Multivariate_Quadratic_Hawkes_.pdf)
- **Summary**: Quadratic Hawkes (QHawkes) processes have proved effective at reproducing the statistics of price changes, capturing many of the stylised facts of financial markets. Motivated by the recently reported strong occurrence of endogenous co-jumps (simultaneous price jumps of several assets) we extend QHa...

## A Multivariate Hawkes Process Model for Stablecoin-Cryptocurrency Depegging Event Dynamics
- **Date**: 2022-05-12
- **ID**: [2205.06338v1](2205.06338v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2205.06338v1_A_Multivariate_Hawkes_Process_.pdf)
- **Summary**: Stablecoins, digital assets pegged to a specific currency or commodity value, are heavily involved in transactions of major cryptocurrencies. The effects of deviations from their desired fixed values (depeggings) on the cryptocurrencies for which they are frequently used in transactions are therefor...

## Modeling bid and ask price dynamics with an extended Hawkes process and its empirical applications for high-frequency stock market data
- **Date**: 2022-01-25
- **ID**: [2201.10173v1](2201.10173v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2201.10173v1_Modeling_bid_and_ask_price_dyn.pdf)
- **Summary**: This study proposes a versatile model for the dynamics of the best bid and ask prices using an extended Hawkes process. The model incorporates the zero intensities of the spread-narrowing processes at the minimum bid-ask spread, spread-dependent intensities, possible negative excitement, and nonnega...

## On Hawkes Processes with Infinite Mean Intensity
- **Date**: 2021-12-28
- **ID**: [2112.14161v3](2112.14161v3)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2112.14161v3_On_Hawkes_Processes_with_Infin.pdf)
- **Summary**: The stability condition for Hawkes processes and their non-linear extensions usually relies on the condition that the mean intensity is a finite constant. It follows that the total endogeneity ratio needs to be strictly smaller than unity. In the present note we argue that it is possible to have a t...

## Do fundamentals shape the price response? A critical assessment of linear impact models
- **Date**: 2021-12-08
- **ID**: [2112.04245v1](2112.04245v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2112.04245v1_Do_fundamentals_shape_the_pric.pdf)
- **Summary**: We compare the predictions of the stationary Kyle model, a microfounded multi-step linear price impact model in which market prices forecast fundamentals through information encoded in the order flow, with those of the propagator model, a purely data-driven model in which trades mechanically impact ...

## Mean-Variance Portfolio Selection in Contagious Markets
- **Date**: 2021-10-18
- **ID**: [2110.09417v1](2110.09417v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2110.09417v1_Mean-Variance_Portfolio_Select.pdf)
- **Summary**: We consider a mean-variance portfolio selection problem in a financial market with contagion risk. The risky assets follow a jump-diffusion model, in which jumps are driven by a multivariate Hawkes process with mutual-excitation effect. The mutual-excitation feature of the Hawkes process captures th...

## General Compound Hawkes Processes for Mid-Price Prediction
- **Date**: 2021-10-13
- **ID**: [2110.07075v1](2110.07075v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2110.07075v1_General_Compound_Hawkes_Proces.pdf)
- **Summary**: High frequency financial data is burdened by a level of randomness that is unavoidable and obfuscates the task of modelling. This idea is reflected in the intraday evolution of limit orders book data for many financial assets and suggests several justifications for the use of stochastic models. For ...

## Exact asymptotic solutions to nonlinear Hawkes processes: a systematic classification of the steady-state solutions
- **Date**: 2021-10-04
- **ID**: [2110.01523v2](2110.01523v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2110.01523v2_Exact_asymptotic_solutions_to_.pdf)
- **Summary**: Hawkes point processes are first-order non-Markovian stochastic models of intermittent bursty dynamics with applications to physical, seismic, epidemic, biological, financial, and social systems. While accounting for positive feedback loops that may lead to critical phenomena in complex systems, the...

## Non-average price impact in order-driven markets
- **Date**: 2021-10-02
- **ID**: [2110.00771v2](2110.00771v2)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2110.00771v2_Non-average_price_impact_in_or.pdf)
- **Summary**: We present a measurement of price impact in order-driven markets that does not require averages across executions or scenarios. Given the order book data associated with one single execution of a sell metaorder, we measure its contribution to price decrease during the trade. We do so by modelling th...

## Deep Hawkes Process for High-Frequency Market Making
- **Date**: 2021-09-30
- **ID**: [2109.15110v1](2109.15110v1)
- **PDF**: [Local](./2109.15110v1_Deep_Hawkes_Process_for_High-F.pdf)
- **Summary**: High-frequency market making is a liquidity-providing trading strategy that simultaneously generates many bids and asks for a security at ultra-low latency while maintaining a relatively neutral position. The strategy makes a profit from the bid-ask spread for every buy and sell transaction, against...
