Market dynamics immediately before and after financial shocks: quantifying the
Omori, productivity and Bath laws


Alexander M. Petersen, [1] Fengzhong Wang, [1] Shlomo Havlin, [2, 1] and H. Eugene Stanley [1]

1Center for Polymer Studies and Department of Physics,
Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA
2Minerva Center and Department of Physics, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat-Gan 52900, Israel
(Dated: November 26, 2024)


We study the cascading dynamics immediately before and immediately after 219 market shocks.
We define the time of a market shock Tc to be the time for which the market volatility V (Tc)
has a peak that exceeds a predetermined threshold. The cascade of high volatility “aftershocks”
triggered by the “main shock” is quantitatively similar to earthquakes and solar flares, which have
been described by three empirical laws — the Omori law, the productivity law, and the Bath
law. We analyze the most traded 531 stocks in U.S. markets during the two-year period 20012002 at the 1-minute time resolution. We find quantitative relations between the “main shock”
magnitude M ≡ log10 V (Tc) and the parameters quantifying the decay of volatility aftershocks as
well as the volatility preshocks. We also find that stocks with larger trading activity react more
strongly and more quickly to market shocks than stocks with smaller trading activity. Our findings
characterize the typical volatility response conditional on M, both at the market and the individual
stock scale. We argue that there is potential utility in these three statistical quantitative relations
with applications in option pricing and volatility trading.



I. INTRODUCTION


Financial fluctuations have been a topic of study for
economists [1, 2], mathematicians [3], and physicists [4–
9]. Here we study financial fluctuations using concepts
developed in the field of seismology [10, 11] and analogies from turbulent dynamics in our description of market main shock magnitudes in order to analyze the dynamic response of markets to financial shocks. We identify parallels between energy cascades and information
cascades, and also between turbulent bursts and the clustering of volatility [12]. Our results demonstrate three
statistical regularities which relate the volatility magnitude M ≡ log10 V (Tc) to the market response before and
after market shocks.
Common financial “shocks” are relatively smaller in
the volatility magnitude, the duration, and the number of stocks affected, than the extremely large and infrequent financial crashes. Devastating financial shocks
such as Black Monday (20 October, 1987) have significant aftershocks that can last for several months, and
this “dynamic relaxation” is similar to the aftershock
cascade following an earthquake [13]. Here we aim to
better understand market shocks over a range of M values. While the previous studies have focussed on at most
a few large crashes, we use a large data set of 219 financial “main shocks” observed in American markets over
the 2-year period 2001-2002. We analyze 531 frequently
traded stocks corresponding to approximately 44,000,000
volatility records at a 1-minute time resolution. We find
three quantitative relations which enable answering such
questions as:


(i) How does the rate of volatility aftershocks decay
with time, and how do the decay parameters relate
to the main shock magnitude M ?



(ii) How many aftershocks above a given threshold can
be expected after a main shock of magnitude M ?


(iii) What is the relation between the value of the main
shock volatility V (Tc) and the second largest aftershock (or preshock)?


These three questions have been studied for geophysical
earthquakes, and the corresponding statistical laws are
referred to respectively as the Omori law, the productivity law, and the Bath law.
The Omori law was first investigated in the context of
financial crashes by Lillo and Mantegna [13], who found a
power-law relaxation of fluctuations at a 1-min time resolution for the S&P500 over the 100-day period following
the Black Monday crash. Power-law relaxation of aftershocks is also observed for long periods following several
other medium-size crashes [14], and also for short periods
up to several days following U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate change announcements [15]. One key feature of
long-range relaxation dynamics is the scale-free decay of
large fluctuations that is typical of a system with memory, and which is complemented by self-similarity in the
decay substructure [14].
We find similar perturbation-response dynamics in the
intraday volatility (absolute return) time series for many
single stocks on numerous days, indicating that markets
respond in a common way to perturbations that range
in size from everyday market fluctuations to infrequent
market crashes. Interestingly, the market is very responsive to Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) news,
either in the form of subtle hints from the Fed or actual rate changes (expected or unexpected), because Fed
Target rates serve as a benchmark and barometer for
both U.S. and World markets [15]. Methods have been
developed to use the interplay between the U.S. Treasury Bill and the Federal Funds effective rate in order


to estimate the future movement of the Federal Funds
target rate [16]. More complex methods to estimate the
probability of interest-rate change involves analyzing the
price-movement of expiring derivative contracts [17]. The
connection between macroeconomic factors and financial
markets is a tribute to the complexity and connectivity
of economic systems. It is a further indicator that news,
in addition to complex order-book dynamics, can play a
significant role in explaining the large rate of occurence
of large fluctuations in markets.
Here we quantify the rate n(|t−Tc|) of volatility shocks
at time t both before and after a market shock occuring at time Tc. In order to determine Tc, we develop a
method for selecting a critical time Tc from a set of candidate times {tc} for which the collective market volatility
of S individual stocks is above a given threshold. For
19 particular dates corresponding to days with FOMC
announcements, we compare the values of calculated Tc
with the reported values of T analyzed in [15], and we
find good prediction of T using this method. After this
calibration, we study the relaxation dynamics of S = 531
stocks, analyzing the Omori law, the productivity law,
and the Bath law for the dynamics both before (t < Tc)
and after (t > Tc) the main market shock.
In Section II we discuss the data, the quantitative
methods used to calculate n(|t − Tc|), and define collective market movement. In Section III A we quantify
the threshold for selecting candidate cascades and calibrate using known values of Tc corresponding to FOMC
meetings. In Section III B we describe the method for
choosing Tc from each significant cascade we identify. In
Section IV we discuss the Omori-law parameters α and
Ω, the productivity parameter Π, and the Bath law parameter B. We note that both Π and B are independent of the dynamical model, and hence do not depend
on n(|t − Tc|), the functional form of the relaxation dynamics. For each of the statistical laws, we compare the
results we obtain for the market average with the results
we obtain for individual stocks.


II. DATA ANALYZED


For the two-year period 2001-2002, we analyze Trades
and Quotes (TAQ) data of more than 500 stocks listed on
the NASDAQ and NYSE. In order to analyze the most
important subset of stocks, we rank each stock by the
average number of transactions per minute. We find
S = 531 stocks with an average of more than 3 transactions per minute, S = 136 stocks with an average of
more than 10 transactions per minute, and S = 20 stocks
with an average of more than 50 transactions per minute.
Unless otherwise stated, our results correspond to the
top S = 531 stocks, but all results become more statistically significant for smaller subsets of more heavily
traded (bellweather) stocks.
In this paper, we study the volatility vj(t) of the intraday price time series pj(t) for stock j. The intraday



2


volatility (absolute returns) is expressed as


vj(t) ≡| ln(pj(t)/pj(t − δt))|, (1)


where here we choose δt = 1 minute so that we can analyze the dynamics immediately before and immediately
after market shocks. To compare stocks, we scale each
volatility time series by the standard deviation over the
entire period analyzed. We then remove the “U”-shaped
intraday trading pattern (averaged over 531 stocks) from
each time series. This establishes a normalized volatility
in units of standard deviation for all minutes during the
day and for all stocks analyzed (see Ref. [14]).
We introduce a volatility threshold q which defines a
binary volatility time series nj(t) for each stock j, which
we calculate from the normalized volatility time series
vj(t) as

       nj(t) ≡ 01,, vvjj((tt)) < q . ≥ q (2)


We find that a volatility threshold q ≡ 3σ is large enough
to distinguish between significant fluctuations and normal background activity. We also choose this value
q ≡ 3σ to provide comparison with the analysis performed in [15]. The rate n(t) measures the fraction of
the market exceeding q at time t,



A market shock at time Tc may result from exogenous
(external) news or endogenous herding [18, 19]. In many
cases, the market shocks can be linked to exogenous news
using archived news feeds that cover and summarize daily
market events [20]. In order to analyze market dynamics
symmetrically around a market shock at time Tc, we analyze the per unit time rate n(|t − Tc|) around the time
Tc. It has been empirically observed that the response
dynamics in financial markets show a power-law decay

[13–15, 21–23],


n(|t − Tc|) ∼ α|t − Tc| [−][Ω], (5)


where Ωis called the Omori power-law exponent, α is the
cascade amplitude, t < Tc corresponds to before the main
shock, and t > Tc corresponds to after the main shock.
For comparison, n(|t - Tc|) is constant for stochastic processes with no memory, corresponding to Ω ≡ 0. Hence,
for an empirical value Ω ≈ 0, the rate n(|t − Tc|) is indistinguishable from an exponential decay for |t − Tc| < t,



n(t) ≡ [1]

S



�S

nj(t) . (3)
j=1



The rate nj(t) quantifying the volatility of a single stock
j corresponds to the limit S → 1. We define the average
market volatility V (t) similarly by



V (t) ≡ [1]

S



�S

vj (t) . (4)
j=1


where t is the characteristic exponential time scale. However, for larger values of Ω, the exponential and powerlaw response curves are distinguishable, especially if several orders of magnitude in τ is available.
Instead of analyzing n(|t − Tc|), we perform our quantitative analysis on N (|t − Tc|), the cumulative number
of events above threshold q at time t minutes, where by
definition

       - t
N (|t − Tc|) = n(|t [′] - Tc|)dt [′] ∼ β(|t − Tc|) [1][−][Ω] (6)

Tc


for market co-movement and

      - t
N [j] (|t−Tc|) = nj(|t [′] −Tc|)dt [′] ∼ βj(|t−Tc|) [1][−][Ω][j] . (7)

Tc


for the activity of stock j. We perform our regression
analysis on N [j] (|t−Tc|) because it is less noisy and monotonic as compared to nj(|t − Tc|).
Hence, for a given day, we calculate the cumulative
time series N [j] (t) from nj(t) for each stock j, where t = 0
corresponds to the opening bell at 9:30 AM ET. For comparison, we also analyze the average market response
N (t) of the S stocks under consideration, which complements the study of individual stocks.
To demonstrate our approach, in Fig. 1 we plot V (t),
N (t) and also N [j] (t) for four single stocks on 01/11/2002,
a day when there was a large market shock corresponding to a publicized comment by the Fed chairman Alan
Greenspan concerning economic recovery which occurred
at approximately Tc = 255 minutes after the opening
bell.
In order to compare the dynamics before and after the
market shock, we first separate the intraday time series
N (t) into two time series Nb(t|t < Tc), and Na(t|t > Tc).
Then, to treat the dynamics symmetrically around Tc, we
define the displaced time τ = |t− Tc| ≥ 1 as the temporal
distance from Tc. As an illustration, we plot in Fig. 2
the time series on 01/11/2002 as a function of τ . We
then employ a linear fit to find the τ dependence of both
Nb(τ ) ≡ N (Tc) − N (|t − Tc|) and Na(τ ) ≡ N (t − Tc) −
N (Tc) on a log-log scale to estimate the Omori power-law
exponents Ωb before the news and Ωa after the news. By
analogy, we define α to be the amplitude α = β(1 − Ω)
before Tc as αb and after the shock as αa.


III. METHOD FOR DETERMINING Tc


A. Calibration using FOMC announcements


We use n(t) to quantitatively determine times Tc in
which the market is moving together, possibly in response
to an external market shock or possibly as a result of endogenous herding. In Fig. 3 we plot the average daily
pattern for n(t) and the standard deviation σ(t). The values of n(t) and σ(t) are not stationary, so we remove the
daily trend from n(t) by defining the detrended quantity



3


n [′] (t) ≡ (n(t) − n(t))/σ(t). In order to distinguish significant moments of market co-movement from background
fluctuations, we use a significance threshold which we
obtain from the distribution of market activity over the
entire data set analyzed. Hence, we analyze the quantity
x(t) defined as,


x(t) ≡ n(t) [n][(][t][)][ −] [n][(][t][))], (8)

σ(t)


which is the product of n(t) and n [′] (t). The value of n(t)
quantifies the size of the market co-movement, while n [′] (t)
quantifies the significance of the market co-movement.
Because n(t)) is not constant during the day, we consider the normalized quantity n [′] (t) in order to remove
the intraday pattern. Then, to restrict our analysis to
relatively large market co-movements, we eliminate times
toward the beginning and end of each day, when average
market activity is lower (significant morning activity is
often related to overnight news [24]). We analyze the
quantity x(t), which is large only if both n(t) and n [′] (t)
are large. Fig. 4 demonstrates how the quantity x(t)
is useful for amplifying market co-movement and provides an illustration of a significant shock with substantial preshock and aftershock dynamics.
We analyze the time series x(t) in order to select the
set of times {t} of the market shocks that are large in
the fraction of the market involved (large n(t)) as well
as significant with respect to the time in which they occur (large n [′] (t)). We determine a significance threshold
xc from the probability density function (pdf) of x(t) as
in Fig. 5. As a null model, we shuffle the order of each
intraday time series vj(t) and obtain a shuffled market
volatility rate nsh(t) for each day. This preserves the
empirical pdf of vj (t) but removes the correlations that
exist in the temporal structure of vj (t). We also plot
nsh(t) ≈ 0.23 in Fig. 3 which corresponds to a residual
0.23 co-movement due to random fluctuations. We compare the pdfs for x(t) and xsh(t) in Fig. 5(b), and observe
a significant divergence for x(t) > 1.
We calibrate our method for determining Tc from candidate cascades by using the known reported values T
corresponding to Fed announcements. We choose the
value xc = 1.0 which reproduces with the best accuracy
the values of T that we provide for comparison in Table I. The value of xc = 1.0 results in 5, 804 minutes
out of 190, 000 minutes analyzed for which x(t) > xc, or
roughly 3% of the 2-year period with significant market
co-movement.


B. Determining Tc from candidate cascades


In a typical trading day there are many large fluctuations, for both individual stocks and indices such as the
S&P 500 and DOW. Analysis of the return intervals and
the cross-correlations in financial time series shows that
significant statistical regularities exist [25-31]. This fact
is evident in the robust probability density function of


TABLE I: Comparison of announcement times T (as reported in New York Times) with the market clustering times
Tc calculated using a threshold xc = 1.0, cascade window
∆l ≡ 60 min., and S = 136 stocks. The value of x(Tc) corresponds to the largest value out of all the candidate {x} in
the most significant cascade of the particular day. Dates of
19 FOMC meetings in the 2-year period between Jan. 2001

- Dec. 2002, where the Federal Funds Target rate (Rnew)
was implemented by the rate change (∆R) at (T ) minutes
after the opening bell at 9:30 AM ET [32]. The absolute relative change | R [∆] old [R] [| ≡|][∆][R][(][t][)][/R][(][t][ −] [1)][|][ has typically filled]

the range between 0.0 and 0.25. Note: Date** refers to unscheduled meetings, in which the announcement time did not
correspond to 2:15 PM ET (T = 285 minutes).


FOMC Date Rnew (%) ∆R R∆oldR T Tc


01/03/01** 6 -0.5 -0.077 210 227


01/31/01 5.5 -0.5 -0.083 285 290


03/20/01 5 -0.5 -0.091 285 286


04/18/01** 4.5 -0.5 -0.100 90 88


05/15/01 4 -0.5 -0.111 285 287


06/27/01 3.75 -0.25 -0.063 285 285


08/21/01 3.5 -0.25 -0.067 285 286


09/17/01** 3 -0.5 -0.143 0 16


10/02/01 2.5 -0.5 -0.167 285 288


11/06/01 2 -0.5 -0.200 285 292


12/11/01 1.75 -0.25 -0.125 285 287


01/30/02 1.75 0 0.00 285 289


03/19/02 1.75 0 0.00 285 293


05/07/02 1.75 0 0.00 285 287


06/26/02 1.75 0 0.00 285 286


08/13/02 1.75 0 0.00 285 291


09/24/02 1.75 0 0.00 285 291


11/06/02 1.25 -0.5 -0.286 285 286


12/10/02 1.25 0 0.00 285 295


volatility which has a stable power-law tail for a wide
range of time scales ranging from 1-minute to several days

[4, 7, 37, 38]. We select market cascades that are above
a “spurious fluctuations” threshold, which we define by
randomizing the order vi(t). We use the corresponding
shuffled values nsh(t) as a proxy for background noise.
We find on average approximately 12 minutes per day
above the threshold xc ≡ 1.0. So here we develop a
method for selecting the most likely time Tc from all candidate times with x(t) > xc. For a given day, we collect
all values of x(t) > xc into a subset {x [′] (t)} of size z.
From this subset, we divide the z values into k cascades
{x [′] (t)}i, which we define as localized groups using the
criterion that a cascade ends when the time between the
last x [′] in cascade i is separated from the first x [′] in cascade i+1 by a time window greater than ∆l minutes. We
next assign to each cascade group {x [′] (t)}i a weight equal



4


to the sum of the x [′] (t) values belonging to the given cascade group, and select the cascade group with the largest
weight as the most significant cascade. Within the most
significant cascade group, we choose the time corresponding to the maximum value of x [′] (t) as the time Tc of the
main shock. We calibrate this method using the reported
times for the 19 FOMC interest rate meeting announcements, and find that the values ∆l ≡ 60 and xc = 1.0
best reproduce the known set {T }, which we provide for
comparison in Table I.
Using the parameter values xc = 1.0 and ∆l ≡ 60,
we find 373 days with market shocks, out of 495 days
studied. If the values of x [′] (t) were distributed uniformly
across all days, then the probability of finding 122 days
without one x [′] (t) is vanishingly small, which confirms
that the x [′] (t) group together forming cascades. We remove all days where Tc is within ∆t ≡ 90 minutes of
opening (t = 0) or closing (t = 390), and all Tc that
occur on half-days (days before or after the 4th of July,
Thanksgiving or Christmas), resulting in the data set
{Tc} constituting 219 individual days. We also analyzed
the subset of 156 market shocks within ∆t ≡ 120 minutes
of opening or closing and find analogous results as those
reported here for ∆t ≡ 90.
Furthermore, in order to test the dependence of the
data set {Tc [(1)] } found for the time resolution δt = 1
minute used in this paper, we also compare the values
of {Tc [(5)] } and {Tc [(10)] } found using a volatility series with
δt = 5 min. and δt = 10 min. resolution, respectively
(see Eq. (1)). For each of the 219 days with a Tc value we
calculate the absolute difference in the time value Tc [(][δt][)]
using two values of δt. We use similar values of xc for each
time resolution so that the number of days with market
shocks for each resolution are approximately equal. The
difference in Tc [(][δt][)] depends on the resolution δt and the
locality δTc associated with each market shock. The average of the absolute differences for three values of δt are
|Tc [(5)] - Tc [(1)] | = 9 minutes and |Tc [(10)] - Tc [(1)] | = 15 minutes.
We estimate the standard error for a particular time resolution δTc [(][δt][)] ≈ 2δt, which implies that δTc [(1)] ≈ 2 min. for
the 1-min. time resolution. Hence, the use of Tc ± δTc
does not significantly change the results of this paper.
In the next Section, we analyze the empirical laws that
quantify the response dynamics both before and after
significant market shocks.


IV. RESULTS


The analysis performed in this paper is largely inspired
by the analogies between financial market crashes and
earthquakes. Here we identify 219 cascades that meet
our volatility significance criterion and that are within
∆t = 90 minutes of the open or closing of the trading
day. For this set of shocks, we analyze the dynamics
over the 90 minute period immediately before Tc and
the 90 minute period immediately after Tc using the


framework developed in earthquake research [39–45]. Although we present results for only ∆t = 90, we also analyzed the subset of 156 shocks within ∆t = 120 minutes of the beginning and ending of the trading day, and
find analogous results. We restrict our analysis to the
local time period 2∆t within the trading day so that
our results are minimally affected by overnight effects
and overlapping shocks (since the frequency of shocks
larger than our threshold xc used here is approximately
one per trading day). Hence, our analysis of the sizedependence of market relaxation dynamics, where we relate the cascade parameters to the market shock magnitude M ≡ log10 V (Tc), pertains to the intraday horizon
of market shocks which occur relatively frequently.
A recent study finds significant evidence of Omori
power-law relaxation both before and after common
FOMC interest rate announcements [15], and uses the
relationship between the overnight Effective rate and the
U.S. 6-month Treasury Bill to estimate the magnitude
of the financial news shock. The dynamics before the
Fed announcements, which are regularly scheduled and
pre-announced, are consistent with market’s anticipated
surprise in the Fed news, while the dynamics after the
announcements are related to the market’s perceived surprise in the Fed news. The Federal Reserve uses the “announcement effect” [46] to control the federal funds market. Despite the calculated monetary policy, the markets
react quite strongly to the news, with large Omori-law
relaxation cascades that typically correspond to the relatively large M found in this paper.
Closely related to the Omori relaxation of aftershocks
is the productivity law, which establishes a powerlaw relationship between the number of aftershocks or
preshocks that follow or precede a main shock of magnitude M . This is analogous to earthquake analysis
where the magnitude is defined as M ≈ (2/3) log10 E

[43], where E is the energy associated with the stress
released by the main shock. We justify our analogy between market volatility V and earthquake energy E by
comparing the cumulative distribution


P (V > s) ∼ s [−][η][V] (9)


of volatility in financial markets with the cumulative distribution


P (E > s) ∼ s [−][η][E] (10)


of energy E in seismic earthquakes. Both cumulative
distributions are asymptotically power laws, with ηV ≈ 3

[37, 38] and the Gutenberg-Richter law ηE ≈ 2/3 [42].
For the set of 219 market shocks we analyze, we find
a wide range of V (Tc), and hence a wide range of cascade dynamics. We analyze the dynamics only within the
trading day so that we can be confident that the dynamics after and before Tc are related to the market shock
V (Tc). Also, for relatively small V (Tc), it may be difficult to distinguish cascade preshocks (aftershocks) from
opening and closing effects, and volatility resulting from



5


overnight news. Furthermore, we only analyze the first
∆t ≡ 90 minutes of each Na(τ ) and Nb(τ ) time series,
so that the comparison of productivity Pa,b(∆t) is not
affected by time series of variable length.
In Fig. 6 we plot the pdf of Omori parameter values
Ωa,b and αa,b obtained from the power-law fits of Nb(τ )
and Na(τ ). Figs. 6(a) and 6(b) show the distribution of
parameter values calculated for the average market responses Nb(τ ) and Na(τ ) corresponding to Eq. (6), while
6(c) and 6(d) show the distribution of parameter values
calculated from the individual stock responses Nb [j][(][τ] [) and]
Na [j][(][τ] [). The pdfs for individual stock values of Ωand][ α]
have a larger dispersion, as the response to each market
shock is not uniform across all stocks. For the average
market response N (τ ) in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b) the pdfs of
Ωand α are shifted to larger values for t > Tc as compared to t < Tc. This is indicative of the stress that can
build prior to anticipated announcements [46] and the
surprise that is inherent in the news. Larger Ωvalues
correspond to faster relaxation times, while larger α values correspond to higher activity. We also observe Ω < 0,
which corresponds to particular time series in which the
pre-shocks or after-shocks farther away from the main
shock (for large τ ) are dominant over the volatility cascade around Tc. The values of the Omori parameters we
find on averageing over all market shocks are given in the
figure caption.
Although there is a wide distribution of Omori parameter values when considering all 219 market shocks, there
is a strong correlation between the individual stock dynamics for a given market shock. In Fig. 7 we relate
the values of α and Ωcalculated for the average market response to the average and standard deviation of
α and Ωcalculated for individual stocks for a given Tc.
The strong correlation between these quantities over 219
different dates indicates that the dispersion in the values of α and Ωfor individual stocks, as demonstrated in
Figs. 6(a) and 6(c), result from the broad range of V (Tc)
values, and further, that the dispersion does not result
merely from the range of stocks analyzed.
In Fig. 8 we plot the relation between the magnitude
M of each main shock and the resulting Omori exponents
Ωa,b calculated from both market Na,b(τ ) and individual stock Na,b [j] [(][τ] [) response curves. Figs. 8(a) and 8(c)]
show a positive relation between M and the decay exponent Ωa, which indicates that the market responds faster
to large shocks on the intraday time scale. Figs. 8(b)
and 8(d) show a significant dispersion across all stocks
for a given date. Interestingly, we find a crossover at
Mx ≈ 0.5 above which Ωa,b increases sharply to positive
values. The values Ω ≈ 0 for M < Mx correspond to
a dynamical cascade n(τ ) that is indistinguishable from
an exponential decay. Typically, small values of Ωcorrespond to stocks with relatively low trading activity which
are less sensitive to market shocks. For individual stocks,
we define M to be the logarithm of the largest volatility within 3 minutes of the main shock Tc measured for
the average market response N (τ ). This accounts for the


possibility of a stock-specific anticipation or delay time in
the volatility as a result of the mainshock V (Tc). There
is also the possibility that a spurious value of Ω ≈ 0
can arise from a stock which has a constant (potentially
large) level of activity throughout the entire time period
analyzed.
In Fig. 9 we plot the relation between the magnitude
M and the Omori-law amplitude αa,b for both market
Na,b(τ ) and individual Na,b [j] [(][τ] [) response curves. The re-]
lation between α and M is stronger than the relation
between Ωand M, indicating that the Omori-law amplitude has a higher information content than the Omorilaw exponent. The strong relation for the average market
response suggests that it is possible to identify precursors of market shocks with statistical certainty. However, since often Tc corresponds to anticipated market
news, the significant activity prior to the main shock is
a natural biproduct of trader anticipation. Interestingly,
we also observe a critical threshold for Mx ≈ 0.5, above
which the average response amplitude αa,b increases suddenly, analogous to a first order transition.
The behavior of the market cascades above and below
Mx are significantly different. Below Mx, it is typical
for Ωa,b to be negative and αa,b ≈ 0, indicating that
the triggering shock V (Tc) is relatively insignificant, with
relatively few preshocks and aftershocks. In this scenario,
it is possible for a few clusters of relatively large volatility
towards the end of the time series Na,b [j] [(][τ] [) to dominate]
in the calculation of the best-fit parameters, producing
negative values for Ωa,b. There are also cases for both
Na,b [j] [(][τ] [) and][ N][a,b][(][τ] [) for which Ω][a,b][ ≈] [0, corresponding to]
a constant rate of preshocks and aftershocks in the time
period analyzed.
However, above Mx, the cascade around Tc is more significant, but with some anomalous properties. Namely, in
the case of the the market response Na,b(τ ), there is an increasing relation between M and Ωa, indicating that the
market responds more quickly to larger market shocks.
This observation is consistent with the “semi-strong”
efficient-market hypothesis, which asserts that markets
incorporate public news approximately instantly. This
observation is similar to geophysical earthquakes, where
it is observed that the value of Ωa increases with M for
a given geographical location [47]. Also, for geophysical
earthquakes, it is also found that the Omori amplitude
increases exponentially with M [42]. In the case of individual company response Na,b [j] [(][τ] [), the values of the av-]
erage Ωa,b ≈ 0.1 saturate above Mx, whereas the values
of αa,b increase with M . Thus, the stochastic dynamics
display a non-linear relationship with M, consistent with
a non-linear shot noise process [48], and are a potential
avenue for future theoretical research.
In Fig. 10 we plot the relation between V (Tc) and
the productivity Pa(∆t) (or Pb(∆t)), defined as the cumulative number of aftershocks (or preshocks) greater
than the threshold q ≡ 3 within ∆t ≡ 90 minutes of
Tc. Motivated by the power-law relationship observed
for earthquakes we fit the relations Pa(∆t) ∼ M [Π][a] and



6


Pb(∆t) ∼ M [Π][b], and find statistically significant values
for the market response Πb = 0.38 ± 0.07 and Πa =
0.48±0.04, and for individual stocks Πb = 0.23±0.01 and
Πa = 0.25 ± 0.01. For earthquakes, [42] reports a range
of Πa ≈ 0.7 − 0.9 values that are larger than observed
here for financial markets, meaning that the productivity of physical earthquakes increases “faster” with main
shock magnitude than does the productivity of market
shocks. Since for earthquakes Πa < b, where b ≈ 1 is the
scaling exponent in the Gutenberg-Richter law, this inequality establishes the relative importance of small fluctuations as compared to large fluctuations [42]. In other
words, this inequality indicates that small earthquakes
play a larger role than large earthquakes in producing
the observed number of large earthquake shocks. Using
an analogous argument for market volatility, since the
cumulative distribution exponent ηV ≈ 3 is found to be
robust across many markets [37, 38], then the total number NT ot(V ) of aftershocks triggered by all main shock
of size V scales as,


NT ot(V ) = P (V )Pa(∆t) ∼ 10 [(Π][a][−][η][V][ ) log][ V], (11)


is a decreasing function of V . Hence, we also find that
aftershock cascade triggering is controlled by the contributions of the more numerous small shocks. Thus,
the medium-sized market shocks (analyzed here) play a
larger role than the large market shocks in producing the
observed heavy-tailed distribution of market shocks. We
further note that the productivity is a combination of the
relationships of both α and Ωwith V (Tc), which can be
written as


Pa(∆t) ≡ Na(∆t) ∼ (∆t) [1][−][Ω][a] αa/(1 − Ωa) ∼ V (Tc) [Π][a],
(12)
with equivalent relation before the shock for Pb(∆t).
In Fig. 11 we plot the values Ω, α, and P (∆t), both
before and after the main shock at time Tc. Surprisingly,
while there is little statistical relation between Ωb and
Ωa, there is a strong relation between αb and αa as well
as between Pb(∆t) and Pa(∆t), for both ∆t = 90 and
∆t = 120 minutes. This result could be of interest for
volatility traders and options traders who would like to
anticipate the market dynamics after an announcement,
given the dynamics before the announcement.
In Fig. 12 we relate the size of the largest shock V1 ≡
V (Tc) to the sizes of the second largest shock V2, both
before and after Tc. The Bath law parameter B quantifies
the relation between V1 and V2 as


M1 − M2 = log V1 − log V2 = B . (13)


This functional form implies the relation


V2/V1 = CB (14)


and hence B = − log10 CB. Fig. 12(c) is a scatter plot of
V1 and V2,a which shows a linear relation corresponding
to Ba = − log10(0.90) = 0.046. Surprisingly, Fig. 12(a)
also shows a strong relation between V1 and V2,b with


Bb = − log10(0.81) = 0.092. Comparing the values of Bb
and Ba, the difference between the V1 and V2 is smaller
after Tc than before Tc. Interestingly, both Bb and Ba
are significantly smaller than the value BE ≈ 1.2 observed for earthquake aftershocks [41], meaning that the
largest preshock and aftershock are of comparable magnitude to the main shock. This significant difference between earthquakes and market shocks is largely due to
the relative probabilities of observing first and secondlargest events x1 and x2. The conditional probability
P (x1|x2) = P (x1 > x2) is given by the corresponding
cumulative distribution function. Hence, using Eq. (9)
and Eq. (10), the ratio of the conditional probabilities
for E1 and V1 is

P (V1|V2) V2 [−][3], (15)
P (E1|E2) [=][ P] P ( [(] E [V][1] 1 [ > V]    - E [2] 2 [)] ) [∼] E2 [−][2][/][3]


which roughly explains the 10 [2] factor difference BE ≈
10 [2] BV .
We also compare the volatilities V1 and V2 for individual stocks in Fig. 12(b) before Tc and in Fig. 12(d) after
Tc. We compute the average value ⟨V2⟩ for linear bins,
and find V1 > ⟨V2⟩ for V1 > 20, both before and after Tc.
Also, Fig. 12 shows that ⟨V2,a⟩ - ⟨V2,b⟩ for most values
of V (Tc). Hence, the reaction to surpise causes larger
volatility fluctuations than the anticipation of surprise.
We further ask the question, how do the response parameters analyzed here depend on the variations between
individual stock trading patterns? To answer this question, we quantify the trading capacity of each stock by
⟨ω⟩, the average number of transactions per minute, with
3 ≤⟨ω⟩≤ 163 for the S = 531 stocks analyzed. We hypothesize that ⟨ω⟩ is closely related to firm size and market impact. Fig.13(a) shows that ⟨α⟩, ⟨ω⟩ and ⟨P (∆t)⟩
increase with ⟨ω⟩ after Tc, indicating that stocks with a
large trading base respond to market shocks with large
volatility ⟨v(Tc)⟩ (shown in Fig.13(b)), but also relax
more quickly, corresponding to larger Ωvalues. However,
we find no statistical relation between ⟨ω⟩ and ⟨v2,a⟩. Interestingly, Fig. 13(b) shows that this positive relation
also applies to the dynamic response parameters before
Tc.


V. DISCUSSION


Cascading avalanche dynamics are a common phenomena in complex systems ranging in scale from solar flares

[39, 40] and earthquakes [10, 11, 43, 44] to microscopic
vortices in turbulent fluids [49]. Similar bursting phenomena is also observed in human organs, such as the
heart [50, 51], lungs [52, 53], and brain [54–56], and also
for common social [33, 57–59] and economic systems [12–
15, 21–23, 60, 61]. Neural avalanches in the brain are
frequent even in the resting state, and are a signature of
healthy brain functioning within the neural network. In
fact, the ability to process and disseminate information



7


is largely attributed to the network structure of neuronal
correlations which, if inhibited by disease, lead to altered
disfunctional states such as in the case of schizophrenia.
Extending by analogy, the frequency of cascades in financial markets could also be viewed as a “healthy” optimal state for processing information and eliminating
arbitrage among the many the degrees of freedom. Recent work [62] on the switching dynamics around highs
and lows in finanancial time series shows further evidence
of Omori power-law scaling before and after microtrend
extrema, in analogy to the market shocks at Tc developed
here. Interestingly, this work on switching dynamics finds
cascading trends on time scales ranging from seconds to
hundreds of days.
Financial markets are subject to constant information
flow, resulting in a large rate of significant events, such
as Fed announcements [15, 46], quarterly earnings, splits
and dividends announcements, mergers and acquisitions,
institutional reports. This information can arrive as “expected” or come as a “surprise”. Interestingly, there are
precursors extending more than a day in advance of expected announcements such as earnings announcements

[60]. Economists have long been interested in the interplay between informed and uninformed traders, and the
dissemination of information across a market consisting
of rational agents. Early work focusses on the relationship between trading volume and price change, and the
relationship between these quantities and the qualitative
notions of surprise, importance, and precision of the information [61].
Using methods from statistical physics [4,5,34] and
geophysics, we analyze the absolute returns of price because of the long-memory property, and the universality
of fluctuations in this quantity across diverse markets

[35, 36, 38]. Ref.[61] postulates that price changes reflect the average change in market expectations, whereas
trading volume reflects idiosyncratic reactions across all
traders. Recent work further quantifies trading volume
fluctuations and finds that they are similar to price
fluctuations, and furthermore, finds significant crosscorrelation between volume change and price change [63].
Omori relaxation dynamics are also shown for trading
volume in [15]. Here we also observe significant volume
cascading as evident in Fig. 4. The analysis of volume
and transaction dynamics is an avenue of future research,
and could highlight the relationship between volume and
price fluctuations by studying their correlation around
market shocks.
To summarize, we analyzed the cascade dynamics of
price volatility, which has potential applications in options pricing and the pricing of other derivatives. The
Black-Scholes equation in its simple form assumes that
the fluctuations in the price are constant during the duration of the option [64]. However, more sophisticated
methods [65] incorporate time dependent price volatility,
and are more realistic descriptions of the non-stationarity
of financial time series. The results in this paper are
of potential interest for traders modeling derivatives on


short time scales around expected market shocks, e.g
earnings reports. The statistical regularity of both market and individual stock behavior before and after a market shock of magnitude M ≡ log10 V (Tc) provides information that could be used in hedging, since we observe a crossover in the cascade dynamics for M ≈ 0.5.
Knowledge of the Omori response dynamics provides a
time window over which aftershocks can be expected.
Similarly, the productivity law provides a more quantitative value for the number of aftershocks to expect.
Finally, the Bath law provides conditional expectation
of the largest aftershock and even the largest preshock,
given the size of the main shock. Of particular importance, from the inequality of the productivity law scaling


[1] E. F. Fama, The Behavior of Stock-Market Prices. J.
Bus. 38, 34 (1965).

[2] Z. Ding, C.W.J. Granger and R.F. Engle, A long memory
property of stock market returns and a new model. J. of
Emp. Finance 1, 83-106 (1993).

[3] B.B. Mandelbrot, The Variation of Certain Speculative
Prices. J. Bus. 36, 394–419 (1963).

[4] R. N. Mantegna and H. E. Stanley, Econophysics: An
Introduction (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
England, 1999).

[5] J.P. Bouchaud and M. Potters, Theory of Financial
Risk, (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England,
2000).

[6] J. P. Bouchaud, Power laws in economics and finance:
some ideas from physics. Quantitative Finance 1, 105121 (2001).

[7] X. Gabaix, P. Gopikrishnan, V. Plerou, and H. E. Stanley, A Theory of Power-Law Distributions in Financial
Market Fluctuations. Nature 423, 267-270 (2003).

[8] J.D. Farmer, M. Shubik, and E. Smith, Is Economics
the next physical science? Physics Today 58(9), 37-42
(2005).

[9] X. Gabaix, P. Gopikrishnan, V. Plerou, and H. E. Stanley, Institutional Investors and Stock Market Volatility.
Q. J. of Econ. 121, 461-504 (2006).

[10] F. Omori, On the aftershocks of earthquakes. Journal of
the College of Science, Imperial University of Tokyo 7,
111-200 (1894).

[11] T. Utsu, A statistical study of the occurrence of aftershocks, Geophysical Magazine 30, 521-605 (1961).

[12] S. Ghashgaie, W. Breymann, J. Peinke, P. Talkner, and
Y. Dodge, Turbulent cascades in foreign exchange markets. Nature 381, 767-770 (1996).

[13] F. Lillo and R.N. Mantegna, Power-law relaxation in
a complex system: Omori law after a financial market
crash. Phys. Rev. E 68, 016119 (2003).

[14] P. Weber, F. Wang, I. Vodenska-Chitkushev, S. Havlin,
and H. E. Stanley, Relation between volatility correlations in financial markets and Omori processes occuring
on all scales. Phys. Rev. E 76, 016109 (2007).

[15] A.M. Petersen, F. Wang, S. Havlin, and H.E. Stanley, Quantitative law describing market dynamics before
and after interest rate change. Phys. Rev. E 81, 066121
(2010).



8


exponents and the pdf scaling exponent for price volatility, we find that the role of small fluctuations is larger
than the role of extremely large fluctuations in accounting for the prevalence of aftershocks.


Acknowledgments


We thank L. de Arcangelis for the idea of investigating
the Bath and productivity laws, and K. Yamasaki and
A. Ralph for helpful suggestions, and NSF, DTRA, and
ONR for financial support.


[16] J. D. Hamilton and O. Jorda, A model for the federal
funds rate target. J. Polit. Econ. 110, 1135 (2002).

[17] J. D. Hamilton, Daily changes in Fed funds futures prices.
J. Money, Credit Banking 41(4), 567 (2009).

[18] D. Sornette and A. Helmstetter, Endogenous versus exogeneous shocks in systems with memory. Physica A 318,
577-591 (2003).

[19] D. Sornette, Y. Malevergne, and J.F. Muzy, What causes
crashes? Risk 16, 67-71 (2003).

[20] New York Times article archive, 1981-Present.
www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/nytarchive.html

[21] A.G. Zawadowski, G. Andor, and J. Kert´esz, Short-term
market reaction after extreme price changes of liquid
stocks. Quantitative Finance 6, 283-295 (2006).

[22] A. Joulin, A. Lefevre, D. Grunberg, and J.P. Bouchaud,
Stock price jumps: news and volume play a minor
role. Wilmott Magazine 46, 1-6 (2008). (arXiv:condmat/0803.1769).

[23] A. Ponzi, F. Lillo, and R.N. Mantegna, Market reaction
to a bid-ask spread change: A power-law relaxation dynamics. Phys. Rev. E 80, 016112 (2009).

[24] F. Wang, S.-J. Shieh, S. Havlin, and H. E. Stanley, Statistical analysis of the overnight and daytime return, Phys.
Rev. E 79, 056109 (2009).

[25] K. Yamasaki, L. Muchnik, S. Havlin, A. Bunde, and H. E.
Stanley, Scaling and memory in volatility return intervals
in financial markets. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 102, 94249248 (2005).

[26] F. Wang, K. Yamasaki, S. Havlin, and H. E. Stanley,
Scaling and memory of intraday volatility return intervals
in the stock market. Phys. Rev. E 73, 026117 (2006).

[27] F. Wang, P. Weber, K. Yamasaki, S. Havlin, and H. E.
Stanley, Statistical regularities in the return intervals of
volatility. Eur. Phys. J. B 55, 123-133 (2007).

[28] R.N. Mantegna, Hierarchical structure in financial markets. Eur. Phys. J. B 11, 193-197 (1999).

[29] L. Laloux, P. Cizeau and J.P. Bouchaud, and M. Potters,
Noise dressing of financial correlation matrices. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 83, 1467-1470 (1999).

[30] V. Plerou, P. Gopikrishnan, B. Rosenow, L. A. N. Amaral, and H. E. Stanley, Universal and non-universal properties of cross-correlations in financial time series. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 83, 1471-1474 (1999).

[31] V. Plerou, P. Gopikrishnan, B. Rosenow, L.A.N. Amaral,


T. Guhr, and H. E. Stanley, Random matrix approach
to cross-correlations in financial data. Phys. Rev. E 65,
066126 (2002).

[32] Historical Data for key Federal Reserve Interest Rates:
[http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/data.htm](http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/data.htm)
[http://www.federalreserve.gov/fomc/fundsrate.htm](http://www.federalreserve.gov/fomc/fundsrate.htm)

[33] R. Crane and D. Sornette, Robust dynamic classes revealed by measuring the response function of a social
system. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 105, 15649-15653 (2008).

[34] R. Cont, M. Potters, and J.P. Bouchaud, Scaling in stock
market data: stable laws and beyond. Proceedings of the
Les Houches workshop, Les Houches, France, March 1014, 1997, 1-11 (1997).

[35] Y. Liu, P. Cizeau, M. Meyer, C.-K. Peng, and H. E.
Stanley, Correlations in economic time series. Physica A
245, 437 (1997); P. Cizeau, Y. Liu, M. Meyer, C.-K.
Peng, and H. E. Stanley, Physica A 245, 441 (1997).

[36] Y. Liu, P. Gopikrishnan, P. Cizeau, M. Meyer, C.-K.
Peng, and H. E. Stanley, The statistical properties of
the volatility of price fluctuations. Phys. Rev. E 60, 1390
(1999).

[37] V. Plerou, P. Gopikrishnan, L. A. N. Amaral, M. Meyer,
and H. E. Stanley, Scaling of the distribution of price
fluctuations of individual companies. Phys. Rev. E 60,
6519 (1999).

[38] P. Gopikrishnan, V. Plerou, L. A. N. Amaral, M. Meyer,
and H. E. Stanley, Scaling of the distributions of fluctuations of financial market indices. Phys. Rev. E 60,
5305-5316 (1999).

[39] L. de Arcangelis, C. Godano, E. Lippiello, and M.
Nicodemi, Universality in solar flare and earthquake occurrence. Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 051102 (2006).

[40] L. de Arcangelis, E. Lippiello, C. Godano, and M.
Nicodemi, Statistical properties and universality in
earthquake and solar flare occurrence. Eur. Phys. J. B
64, 551-2008 (2008).

[41] G. Drakatos and J. Latoussakis, A catalog of aftershock
sequences in Greece (1971 - 1997): Their spatial and temporal characteristics. Journal of Seismology 5, 137-145
(2001).

[42] A. Helmstetter, Is earthquake triggering driven by small
earthquakes? Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 058501 (2003).

[43] A. Saichev and D. Sornette, Power law distributions of
seismic rates. Tectonophysics 431, 7-13 (2007).

[44] A. Saichev and D. Sornette, Anomalous power law distribution of total lifetimes of branching processes: Application to earthquake aftershock sequences. Phys. Rev. E
70, 046123 (2004).

[45] M. Bottiglieri, L. de Arcangelis, C. Godano, and E. Lippiello, Multiple-time scaling and universal behavior of the
earthquake interevent time distribution. Phys. Rev. Lett.
104, 158501 (2010).

[46] S. Demiralp, O. Jord´a, The announcement effect: Evidence from open market desk data. Fed. Res. Bank N.Y.
Econ. Policy Rev. 8(1), 29 (2002).

[47] G. Ouillon and D. Sornette, Magnitude-dependent Omori
law: Theory and empirical study. J. of Geophysical Res.
110, B04306 (2005).

[48] I. Eliazar, J. Klafter, On the nonlinear modeling of shot
noise Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 102, 13779 (2005).

[49] A. N. Kolmogorov, The local structure of turbulence in
incompressible viscous fluid for very large Reynolds numbers. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 434, 9 (1991).

[50] P. Ch. Ivanov, L. A. N. Amaral, A. L. Goldberger, S.



9


Havlin, M. G. Rosenblum, Z. Struzik, and H. E. Stanley, Multifractality in human heartbeat dynamics. Nature
399, 461-465 (1999).

[51] R. L. Hughson and D.C. Lin, Modeling heart rate variability in healthy humans: A turbulence analogy. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 86, 1650 (2000).

[52] B. Suki, A.-L. Barabasi, Z. Hantos, F. Petak, and H.
E. Stanley, Avalanches and power law behaviour in lung
inflation. Nature 368, 615-618 (1994).

[53] A. M. Alencar, S. V. Buldyrev, A. Majumdar, H. E. Stanley, and B. Suki, Avalanche dynamics of crackle sound in
the lung, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 088101 (2001).

[54] T. Petermann, T.C. Thiagarajan, M.A. Lebedev, M.A.L.
Nicolelis, and D.R. Chialvo, Spontaneous cortical activity in awake monkeys composed of neuronal avalanches.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 106, 15921-15926 (2009) .

[55] D. Plenz, D.R Chialvo, Scaling properties of neuronal avalanches are consistent with critical dynamics.
[preprint: e-print: (arXiv:0912.5369).](http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5369)

[56] J. Touboul, A. Destexhe, Can Power-Law Scaling and
Neuronal Avalanches Arise from Stochastic Dynamics?
PLoS ONE 5, e8982 (2010).

[57] A. V´azquez, J. G. Oliveira, Z. Dezso, K.-I. Goh, I. Kondor, and A.-L. Barab´asi, Modeling bursts and heavy
tails in human dynamics. Physical Review E 73, 036127
(2006).

[58] K.-L. Goh and A.-L. Barab´asi, Burstiness and memory in
complex systems. Europhysics Letters 81, 48002 (2008).

[59] D. Rybski, S. Buldyrev, S. Havlin, F. Liljeros, and H. A.
Makse, Scaling laws of human interactoin activity. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 106, 12640-12645 (2009).

[60] D. Morse, Price and trading volume reaction surrounding
earnings announcement: A closer examination. Journal
of Accounting Research 19, 374-383 (1981) .

[61] O. Kim and R.E. Verrecchia, Trading volume and price
reactions to public announcements. Journal of Accounting Research 29, 302-321 (1991).

[62] T. Preis and H. E. Stanley, Switching Phenomena in a
System with No Switches. J. Stat. Phys. 138, 431-446
(2010).

[63] B. Podobnik, D. Horvatic, A.M. Petersen and H.E. Stanley, Cross-correlations between volume change and price
change. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 106, 22079-22085
(2009) .

[64] B.E. Baaquie. Quantum finance: Path integrals and
Hamiltonians for options and interest rates. (Cambridge
University Press, UK, 2004).

[65] J.P. Bouchaud and D. Sornette, The Black-Scholes option
pricing problem in mathematical finance: Generalization
and extensions for a large class of stochastic processes.
J. Phys. I France 4, 863-881 (1994).


10



70

60

50

40

30

20

10







0

7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0





|JDSU 01/11/<br>AMGN<br>JPM<br>AMAT<br>N(t)<br>(a)|2002|
|---|---|
|<br>_Department of Management, Technol_<br>_Kreuzplatz 5, CH-8032 Zurich,_<br> <br> <br>   on-kings” corresponding to meaningful o|_  ogy and Economics_<br>_  Switzerland_<br>     utliers, which are found to coexist wit|
|<br>   a broad range of conditions in a large var|<br>       iety of systems. These dragon-kings rev|


c



FIG. 1: (color online) Typical volatility curves on 01/11/2002 with market shock at Tc = 256 minutes. (a) The cumulative
volatility N [j] (t) for the stock of several large companies have varying behavior before Tc, but each stock shown begins to cascade
soon after Tc. The market average N (t) over all S = 531 stocks analyzed demonstrates a distinct change in curvature at t = Tc.
(b) The average market volatility V (t) demonstrates a sharp peak at Tc, and also two precursor events at t ≈ 190 and ≈ 230
minutes.



50


40


30


20


10


0


2

1.5

1

0.5

0

-0.5







50


40


30


20


10




     - τ



τ



0



2





-1

-log τ
10



1.5

1

0.5

0

-0.5

-1

log τ
10



FIG. 2: (color online) (a) An illustration of Nb(τ ) and Na(τ ) for the same set of curves plotted in Fig. 1. The displaced time
τ = |t − Tc| is defined symmetrically around Tc = 256 minutes on 01/11/2002. (b) log10 Nb(τ ) and log10 Na(τ ) are linear
with log10 τ over two orders of magnitude on a logarithmic scale. The Omori parameters in Eq. (5) calculated from N (t) are
Ωb = 0.09 ± 0.01, αb = 0.21 ± 0.01 and Ωa = 0.32 ± 0.01, αa = 0.81 ± 0.01 .


11



0.4


0.3


0.2


0.1


0

0.15


0.1


0.05


0



t (minutes)







FIG. 3: (color online) The fraction n(t) of the market above the volatility threshold q is non-stationary through the trading
day. We plot in (a) the average daily trading pattern n(t) for S = 136 stocks and in (b) the corresponding standard deviation,
to demonstrate the trends we remove in the normalized quantity n [′] (t). In practice, we use the smoothed average of these
curves in order to diminish statistical fluctuations on the minute-to-minute scale. For comparison, we compute nsh(t) ≈ 0.23
and σsh ≈ 0.09 for shuffled vi(t). The values of n(t) provide an estimate for the background market co-movement that can be
attributed to random fluctuations.



1

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2





5
4
3
2
1
0
-1

4.5
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0





t (minutes)


FIG. 4: (color online) Example of market co-movement n(t) in both price volatility and total volume, and the qualitative
relationship between the quantities n(t), n [′] (t) ≡ (n(t) − n(t))/σ(t), and x(t) ≡ n(t)n [′] (t). The market shock on 01/11/2002
occurred at Tc = 256 in response to a public comment by the Fed chairman A. Greenspan concerning economic recovery [20].


12



6


5


4


3


2


1





101


100


10-1


10-2


10-3


10-4







0

n(t)



x(t) = n(t) n _`’`_ (t)



FIG. 5: (color online) Using the volatility threshold q = 3 and S = 136 stocks, we determine the market comovement threshold
xc from the pdf of x(t) ≡ n(t)n [′] (t). (a) The pdf for the 190,000 minutes analyzed of the volatility rate n(t) corresponding
to the fraction of the market with volatility vi(t) > q. (b) The pdf of x(t), where in the quantity x(t) we have removed the
average daily trend of n(t), so that x(t) is relatively large when market comovement is large and significant. For comparison,
we also plot the pdf of xsh(t) computed from randomly shuffled volatility time series vi(t). We find a divergence between the
pdf of x(t) and of xsh(t) for x > 1.0, which we define as the comovement threshold xc ≡ 1 in our analysis.



10


8


6


4


2


0


2.5


2


1.5


1


0.5





6


5


4


3


2


1


0





1.5



0

Ω



1


0.5


0

α



FIG. 6: (color online) (a,b) Comparison of the probability density functionss P (α) and P (Ω) of Omori parameters α and Ω
computed from the average market response Na,b(τ ). (c,d) The analogous pdf plots computed from individual stock response
Na,b [j] [(][τ] [). The average and standard deviation of each data set are (a) Ω][a][ = 0][.][09][ ±][ 0][.][07, Ω][b][ = 0][.][06][ ±][ 0][.][07 (b)][ α][a][ = 0][.][35][ ±][ 0][.][11]
, αb = 0.28 ± 0.09 (c) Ωa = 0.08 ± 0.20, Ωb = 0.03 ± 0.22 and (d) αa = 0.53 ± 0.25, αb = 0.46 ± 0.24. Values of both Ωa and
αa are consistently larger than Ωb and αb, indicating that the response time after Tc is shorter than the activation time leading
into Tc. However the response cascade after Tc has, generally, a larger amplitude.


13



1


0.8


0.6


0.4


0.2


0


1


0.8


0.6


0.4


0.2


0


|Col1|(a)<br>r = 0.93|
|---|---|
|various<br>     argume<br>    odel par<br>|various<br>     argume<br>    odel par<br>|



α
a



0.4


0.2


0


-0.2


-0.4









α
b



Ω
b

0.4


0.2


0





-0.2


-0.4







Ω
a



FIG. 7: (color online) In order to account for the dispersion in the pdfs plotted in Figs. 6(c) and 6(d) for individual stocks, we
compare the average values αa,b and Ωa,b computed from all Na,b [j] [(][τ] [) with the][ α][a,b][ and Ω][a,b][ computed from the corresponding]
average market response Na,b(τ ) for each of the 219 Tc. The visually apparent correlation indicates that the parameters
quantifying Na,b(τ ) are a good representation of the average Na,b [j] [(][τ] [). The correlation coefficient][ r][ for each linear regression is]
provided in each panel.


FIG. 8: (color online) The relation between the magnitude M ≡ log10 V (Tc) and the Omori exponents Ωa,b. In panels (a)
and (c) we compare values calculated from the average market response Na,b(τ ), and in panels (b) and (d) we compare values
calculated from individual stock response Na,b [j] [(][τ] [). (a) Weak relation before][ T][c][, where we validate the linear regression model]
at p = 0.001 significance level, but with correlation coefficient r = 0.22. The dispersion may result from the variability
in anticipation preceding the market shock at Tc. (c) The relation between Ωa and M is stronger after Tc than before Tc,
with linear regression significance p ≈ 0, correlation r = 0.40, and regression slope m = 0.19 ± 0.03. The increasing trend
demonstrates that a faster response, quantified by larger Ωa, follows a larger M . Data points in panels (a) and (c) denoted by
the symbol x correspond to values of Ωa,b calculated for randomly selected Tc on those 118 days analyzed without a single value
of x(t) > xc. In panels (b) and (d) there is much dispersion in the Ωvalues of individual stocks for given V (Tc). However, the
average trends demonstrate a significant crossover at Mx ≈ 0.5 from Ωa,b < 0 to Ωa,b > 0. The case of Ω < 0 can occur when
there is more volatility clustering for large τ than for small τ, whereas the case of Ω - 0 occurs for large volatility cascading
around τ ≳ 0. This crossover could result from the difference between anticipated and surprise shocks at Tc.


14


FIG. 9: (color online) The relation between the magnitude M ≡ log10 V (Tc) and the Omori amplitudes αa,b. In panels (a)
and (c) we compare the values calculated from the average market response N (τ ) and in panels (b) and (d) we compare values
calculated from individual stock response Na,b [j] [(][τ] [).] (a) The increasing relation between αb and M is statistically stronger
than the relation between Ωb and M in Fig. 8(a), with significance p ≈ 0, correlation coefficient r = 0.52 and regression
slope m = 0.35 ± 0.04. (c) The relation between αa and M is strong, with significance p ≈ 0, r = 0.84, and regression slope
m = 0.68 ± 0.03. Data points in panels (a) and (c) denoted by the symbol x correspond to values of αa,b calculated for randomly
selected Tc on those 118 days analyzed without a single value of x(t) > xc. The result that α increases with increasing V (Tc)
holds even for random times. In panels (b) and (d) there is much dispersion in the α values of individual stocks for given
V (Tc). However the average trends demonstrate a significant crossover at Mx ≈ 0.5 from αa,b ≈ 0.2 for M < 0.5 to αa,b > 0.2
for M > 0.5. This crossover occurs at a similar location as the crossover observed in Figs. 8(b) and (d) for Ωb,a. The average
amplitude value α increases sharply for M > Mx, consistent with first order phase transition behavior.


FIG. 10: (color online) The increasing relation between the productivity Pa,b(∆t) of each market shock and the size of the
main shock M ≡ log10 V (Tc) with ∆t ≡ 90 min. As is found in earthquakes, we find a power-law relationship between M
and V (Tc) described by a productivity exponent Πb before and exponent Πa after the market shock. Data points in panels
(a) and (c) denoted by the symbol x correspond to values of Pa,b(∆t) calculated for randomly selected Tc on those 118 days
analyzed without a single value of x(t) > xc. The result that P (∆t) increases with increasing V (Tc) holds even for random
times. For the average market response Nb,a(∆t), we find (a) Πb = 0.38 ± 0.07 and (c) Πa = 0.48 ± 0.04. For the productivity
of individual stocks corresponding to Nb,a [j] [(∆][t][) we find (b) Π][b][ = 0][.][23][ ±][ 0][.][01 and (d) Π][a][ = 0][.][25][ ±][ 0][.][01. For comparison, the]
power-law exponent value pertaining to earthquake aftershocks is Πa ≈ 0.7 − 0.9 [42].


15



0.4

0.2

0







-0.2


### Ω



1





0.75

0.5

0.25

0


80

60

40

20

0


### P ( ∆ t)

b


### α

b





FIG. 11: (color online) A comparison of Omori parameters before and after Tc for N (τ ) and varying ∆t indicate that αb and
Pb(∆t) are better conditional estimators for the dynamics after Tc. (a) Weak relationship between Ωb and Ωa for ∆t = 90
and 120. (b) Strong relationship between αb and αa for ∆t = 90 and 120, with both linear regressions passing the ANOVA
F-test at the p < 0.001 confidence level. (c) Strong relationship between Pb(∆t) and Pa(∆t) for ∆t = 90 and 120 min. at the
p < 0.001 confidence level.


16


FIG. 12: (color online) The increasing relation between the size of the main shock V (Tc) and the size of the second largest
aftershock (or preshock) V2(∆t) within ∆t minutes of Tc demonstrates that the volatility of the largest aftershock (or preshock)
increases with mainshock volatility. As with the Bath law for earthquakes, we observe a proportional relation V2,a(∆t) ≡
CBV (Tc) which corresponds to a Bath parameter B = − log10 CB. For the average market response Nb,a(∆t) we calculate
CB for (a) the dynamics before, CB = 0.81 with correlation coefficient r = 0.70 and χ [2] = 212, and for (c) the dynamics after
CB = 0.9 with r = 0.87 and χ [2] = 109. For the Bath law corresponding to individual stocks we find that a linear function best
fits the relation between V (Tc) and the average value V 2(∆t) calculated for equal-sized bins as indicated by circles with one
standard deviation error bars. We calculate the regression slope for the Bath law (b) before is m = 0.65 ± 0.02 and (d) after is
m = 0.40 ± 0.01



After T
c
1 10 100



Before T
c
1 10 100



0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
**0.2**


0.1


0


-0.1

40


30


20

16
14
12
10
8
6



< ω >









0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
**0.2**


0.1


0


-0.1


40


30


20

12

10

8

6





< ω >



FIG. 13: (color online) Relations between individual stock trading activity and dynamic response parameters (a-d) after Tc and
(e-h) before Tc, averaged over all the days with a market shock. We measure the trading activity ⟨ω⟩ for each stock, defined
as the average number of transactions per minute over the 2-year period 2001-2002. We find that stocks with large trading
activity react both more strongly (larger α and larger P (∆t)) and quickly (larger Ω) to market shocks. However, panel (d)
shows that there is little relation between ⟨ω⟩ and the average size of the largest aftershock ⟨v2⟩.


