# High Frequency Trading and Mini Flash Crashes [∗]

#### Anton Golub [1], John Keane [2], and Ser-Huang Poon [3]

1Olsen Ltd.
2University of Manchester - School of Computer Science
3Manchester Business School

#### November 27, 2024


**Abstract**


We analyse all Mini Flash Crashes (or _Flash Equity Failures_ ) in the US equity
markets in the four most volatile months during 2006-2011. In contrast to previous
studies, we find that Mini Flash Crashes are the result of regulation framework and
market fragmentation, in particular due to the aggressive use of Intermarket Sweep
Orders and Regulation NMS protecting only Top of the Book. We find strong evidence that Mini Flash Crashes have an adverse impact on market liquidity and are
associated with Fleeting Liquidity.


Keywords: Mini Flash Crash, Flash Crash, Liquidity, High Frequency Trading,
Intermarket Sweep Order, ISO, Top of the Book Protection, Regulation National
Market System


_∗_ The authors gratefully acknowledge funding from the European Community’s Seventh Framework
Programme FP7-PEOPLE-ITN-2008 under grant agreement number PITN-GA-2009-237984.


1


### **1 Introduction**

Much attention in recent years has focused on traders who reportedly account for
upwards of 50 percent of market volume and whereby the ability to make consistent
profits largely depends on speed. The so called “race to zero” has led to the rise of
an entire technology sub-industry. For example, the $300 million Project Express
by Hibernia Atlantic aims to reduce latency across the Atlantic Ocean by 5 milliseconds, [1] which will make it the world’s fastest transatlantic cable when it opens
in 2013 and the first to achieve round-trip trading speeds of less than 60 milliseconds. [2] Exchanges also play their part in this “arms race”: the latest addition is
the Singapore Exchange’s (SGX) $250 million worth Reach Initiative, which claims
to have the fastest trading engine, with average order response time of less than 90
microseconds door-to-door - the fastest order execution ever tested.


High frequency trading (HFT) gained prominence in the media after May 6th
2010, the day when the U.S stock market experienced one of its most severe price
drops in history: the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) index dropped by almost 9% from the open - the second largest intraday point swing, 1,010.14 points,
and the biggest one-day point decline of 998.5 points. The crash was so rapid that
the index tumbled 900 points in less than 5 minutes, but recovered the bulk of its
losses in the next 15 minutes of trading. This event is now known as the “May 6th
2010 Flash Crash”. Such a large swing raised much concerns about the stability
of capital markets, resulting in a US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
investigation of the US equity markets (SEC, 2010). This report claimed that the
crash was ignited by a sell algorithm of a large mutual fund [3] executing a $4.1 billion sell trade in the eMini S&P500 futures. While HFT did not spark the crash,
it does appear to have created a “hot potato” trading volume that contributed to
the crash. In contrast, Nanex (Nanex, 2010) concluded that quote stuffing and
delays in data feeds created a positive feedback loop that set-off the crash. Furthermore, Nanex found that the mentioned sell algorithm in fact did not have a market
impact as it has sold on the offer, thereby providing (upside) liquidity to the market.


In this paper we study _Mini Flash Crashes_ in US equity markets. Mini Flash
Crashes are abrupt and severe price changes that occur in an extremely short period. They are scaled down versions of the May 6th 2010 Flash Crash. Figure 1
shows an example of a _down Mini Flash Crash_ that occurred on October 7th 2008
to the stock price of Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE ticker: GS) – when a 1.6%
price drop occurred in less than 400 milliseconds. The price dropped $1.89 and
then immediately returned to its previous levels. Mini Flash Crashes only became
known to the general public in late 2010 when Nanex preformed a thorough analysis
of the US stock markets in the aftermath of the May 6th Flash Crash, attributing
these crashes to HFT activity (Nanex, 2010). Perhaps the most well known recent
Mini Flash Crash is that of the BATS Initial Public Offering (IPO). [45] Shares of


11 millisecond is one thousandth of a second; 1 microsecond is one millionth of a second.
2“High-Speed Trading: My Laser Is Faster Than Your Laser”, Philips, M. _BloombergBusinessweek:_
_Markets & Finance_, April 23, 2012.
3 The mutual fund is alleged to be Waddell & Reed Financial Inc.
4“Bats: The Epic Fail of the Worst IPO Ever”, Beucke, D., _BloombergBusinessweek: Markets &_
_Finance_, March 23, 2012.
5“BATS Flash Crash: Here’s What Happened”, Albinus, P., _Advanced Trading: Exchanges/ECNs_,


2


BATS, the third largest US electronic exchange, started trading on March 23rd,
2012 at 11:14:18.436 with an initial price of $15.25. Within 1.5 seconds, the price
dropped to $0.0002, as a series of Intermarket Sweep Order (ISO) were executed on
NASDAQ. The fate of the IPO was sealed as the shares were indefinitely withdrawn
from trading later that day.







































































































































































































































|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||G**G**GG**GG**G**G**<br>G<br>GG**G**<br>**GG**GG<br>**G**G**G**<br>GG<br>G<br>**GG**G**G**<br>**G**GGGG<br>G**GG**<br>G<br>GG<br>GG**G**<br>GGGGGGG GGG<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>**GG**G**GGG**G**G**G**GGG**<br>G<br>G**GGG**G<br>**GG**<br>**G**G<br>G<br>**GG**G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>**GGG**<br>**G**G<br>G<br>G<br>G**G**<br>G<br>**G**G**G**|G**G**GG**GG**G**G**<br>G<br>GG**G**<br>**GG**GG<br>**G**G**G**<br>GG<br>G<br>**GG**G**G**<br>**G**GGGG<br>G**GG**<br>G<br>GG<br>GG**G**<br>GGGGGGG GGG<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>**GG**G**GGG**G**G**G**GGG**<br>G<br>G**GGG**G<br>**GG**<br>**G**G<br>G<br>**GG**G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>**GGG**<br>**G**G<br>G<br>G<br>G**G**<br>G<br>**G**G**G**|GG<br>G<br>G**G**G<br>**GG**GG**G**G**G**GG<br>**GGG**G<br>**G**G**G**<br>G<br>**GGG**GGG**G**<br>GGG**G**<br>GGG<br>G<br>G<br>G**G**<br>**G**GGG<br>G<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>G G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>GGG<br>G<br>GG**GG**<br>**G**<br>**GG**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>G**G**G**GG**GGG<br>G<br>G<br>**GG**G**GG**GG<br>G**G**<br>G<br>GG<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>GG<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>G**G**G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>GGG**G**<br>**G**<br>G**G**<br>G<br>GG<br>GG<br>G<br>G<br>GGG<br>GGG<br>GGGG**G**<br>|**G**GG<br>GG<br>**G**G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>GGGG<br>**G**GGG**GG**G**G**<br>GG<br>G**G**<br>**GG**G<br>G<br>GGG<br>**GG**GGG**G**<br>G<br>**G**GG<br>G<br>GG<br>GGG<br>**G**G<br>**GG**<br>**G**<br>**G**GGGG<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**GGG**GG**<br>G**G**<br>GG<br>G**G**G<br>**G**<br>G<br>**G**<br>G<br>GG<br>G**G**<br>GG**G**GGGGGG<br>G**G**<br>G**GG**<br>G**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>**G**<br>G<br>**G**<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>GGGGGGGG**G**G**G**<br>**G**G<br>**GG**G**G**<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**GG**<br>G<br><br>G**G**<br>**G**<br>**GGG**G**G**<br>**G**G<br>GG<br>G**G**<br>**GG**<br>**GG**G<br>G<br>G<br>**G**GG<br>**GGGGG**G<br>||||||||
||||||~~G~~<br>GGG<br>GG<br>G<br>~~G~~<br>G<br>GGGGG<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>~~**GG**~~**G**~~G~~<br>GG<br>~~G~~<br>**G**G<br>G<br>**GG**<br>G**G**<br>G**G**G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G<br>**GG**GG<br>**G**G**GGG**<br>G<br>**G**<br>G**G**<br>**G**GG|**G**GG**G**<br>**G**<br>**GG**G<br>**G**GGGGG**G**G**G**GGG**G**G**GG**G<br>**G**G<br>G<br>G<br>**GG**<br>G<br>**GG**G<br>**G**<br>G<br>G**G**GG<br>G<br>**G**<br>**GG**<br>GGG<br>GG<br>GGGGGG<br>G**G**<br>GG<br>**G**G<br>G<br>**GG**<br>GG<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>GG**G**<br>GG**G**<br>**GG**<br>G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>GG**GG**G<br>G<br>**G**GG<br>**GG**<br>GG<br>G<br>G<br>GGGG**G**GG**G**G<br>G**G**G<br>GG<br>G<br>G<br>G**GG**<br>G<br>**GGGG**<br>G<br>**GG**<br>**GGG**<br>G<br>G**G**<br>GGG|**G**GGG**G**GGGG<br>GG<br>**G**G**G**<br>GG**GG**G<br>**G**GG**G**<br>G**G**<br>**G**GG<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>G**G**<br>GG<br>G**GGG**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**GGGG**G**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>**GGG**<br>**G**G<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**<br>**GG**GGG**GG**GG<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**G**G**G**G**<br>GG<br>G<br>**G**GG<br>G<br>G<br>GGG**G**GG**G**<br>**G**G<br>**G**G<br>G**G**<br>G<br>G**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**G**G**GG**G**GG<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**G**G**G<br>|**G**GGG**G**GGGG<br>GG<br>**G**G**G**<br>GG**GG**G<br>**G**GG**G**<br>G**G**<br>**G**GG<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>G**G**<br>GG<br>G**GGG**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**GGGG**G**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>**GGG**<br>**G**G<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**<br>**GG**GGG**GG**GG<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**G**G**G**G**<br>GG<br>G<br>**G**GG<br>G<br>G<br>GGG**G**GG**G**<br>**G**G<br>**G**G<br>G**G**<br>G<br>G**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**G**G**GG**G**GG<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**G**G**G<br>|**G**GGG**G**GGGG<br>GG<br>**G**G**G**<br>GG**GG**G<br>**G**GG**G**<br>G**G**<br>**G**GG<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>G**G**<br>GG<br>G**GGG**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**GGGG**G**G**<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>**GGG**<br>**G**G<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**<br>**GG**GGG**GG**GG<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>**G**<br>G<br>**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**G**G**G**G**<br>GG<br>G<br>**G**GG<br>G<br>G<br>GGG**G**GG**G**<br>**G**G<br>**G**G<br>G**G**<br>G<br>G**G**<br>**G**<br>**G**G**G**G**G**GG**G**GG<br>GG**G**<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**G**G**G<br>|G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>GGG<br>G<br>**G**G<br>**GGGG**G**G**G<br>**G**<br>G**G**GG<br>G**G**G<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**G<br>GG<br>G**G**GGGGG<br>GG<br>G**G**G<br>**G**<br>**GG**G<br>G<br>G**G**<br>**G**GGG G**G**|G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>G<br>GGG<br>G<br>**G**G<br>**GGGG**G**G**G<br>**G**<br>G**G**GG<br>G**G**G<br>**G**<br>G<br>G<br>GG**G**G<br>GG<br>G**G**GGGGG<br>GG<br>G**G**G<br>**G**<br>**GG**G<br>G<br>G**G**<br>**G**GGG G**G**||
||||||G<br>~~G~~<br>G<br>GGG<br>G<br>G<br>GGG<br>|~~**G**~~|||||||
||||||~~GG~~<br>GG<br>G<br>G<br>GG<br>GG||||||||
||||||~~G~~<br>G||||||||
||||||||||||||


12:39 15 30 45 12:40 15 30 45 12:41 15 30 45 12:42 15 30 45 12:43

Time


**Figure 1: Example of a Mini Flash Crash.** The figure shows a Mini Flash Crash occurring at NYSE
in the stock of Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE ticks: GS) on October 7th 2008, resulting in a 1.6%
price drop in less than 400 milliseconds. The crash consisted of 58 trades, where the last 57 were marked
ISO, for a total volume of 86000 shares, reducing the price $1.89 from its initial values.


This paper investigates and analyses the causes of Mini Flash Crashes. Whilst
Mini Flash Crashes have been high profile in the financial community, there has not
been any attempt to explain these crashes. In Johnson et. al. (2012), the authors
suggest that the crashes may be a result of interaction between several trading algorithms, or a positive feedback loop induced by market environment. Moreover, they
argue that: _“...these ultrafast black swans are not simply the product of some patho-_
_logical regulatory rule for crashes...”_ . Contrary to Johnson et. al. (2012), we find
evidence that Mini Flash Crashes are the product of market regulation. Specifically,
we conclude that the crashes predominantly happen due to the aggressive use of ISO
and the fact that Regulation National Market System (NMS) only protects the Top
of the Book. In practice this manifest as a burst of trades from one exchange,
as remaining orders rips through the book due to the lack of Depth of the Book
protection. We characterise two types of Mini Flash Crashes: _ISO-initiated_ and


March 26, 2012.


3


_auto-routing-initiated_ . We find that Mini Flash Crashes are mostly ISO-initiated
and have adverse impact on liquidity conditions resulting in wider quotes, increased
number of locked or crossed quotes, and reduction of quoted volume. Further, we
find Fleeting Liquidity to be related with Mini Flash Crashes. The logit regression
results show that Fleeting Liquidity is associated with ultra-fast Mini Flash Crashes,
of small volume and a small number of trades.


The rest of this paper is organized as follows; Section 2 provides a survey of
previous literature and defines Mini Flash Crashes. The dataset used in the research
is described in Section 3. Section 4 presents statistics on Mini Flash Crashes, and
the definition of two types of crashes. Section 5 examines the impact of Mini Flash
Crashes on market liquidity, and relates _Fleeting Liquidity_ to crash characteristics.
Finally, Section 6 concludes and discusses the weaknesses of current regulation and
suggests ways to restrain Mini Flash Crashes.

### **2 Background**


This work belongs to a growing field of research on HFT and market activity in
millisecond environments. Previous research has mainly focused on the cause of
the May 6th 2010 Flash Crash. The joint report of the SEC and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (2010) attributed a sell order in the eMini S&P 500
futures market as the cause of the Flash Crash. While HFTs did not start the crash
they generated a “hot-potato” volume accelerating mutual fund’s sell side pressure
and contributing to the sharp price declines that day. On the other hand, Nanex
(Nanex, 2010) found that quote saturation and NYSE Consolidated Quotation System (CQS) delays, combined with negative news from Greece and sale of eMini S&P
500 futures, ”...was the beginning of the freak sell-off which became known as the
flash crash”. Nanex rejected claims the crash was due to NYSE “Slow Quote” mode
or Liquidity Replenishment Point (LRP) [6], and movements in the price of Apple Inc.
(AAPL) and stub quotes [7] . Further, Nanex analysed the mutual fund’s trade executions in the June 2010 eMini futures contract on May 6th 2010 and showed that
the algorithm neither took nor required liquidity at any stage, and that the bulk of
the sell trades occurred after the market bottomed and was on the recovery trend.
Kirilenko et. al. (2011) use audit-trail data and examined the trades in the eMini
S&P 500 stock index futures market on May 6 and also conclude that HFTs did not
trigger the Flash Crash, though their responses caused a “hot potato” effect on the
unusually large selling pressure on that day exacerbated market volatility.


Easly, Lopez de Prado, O’Hara (2011) show the Volume-Synchronized Probability of Informed Trading (VPIN) captures the increasing toxicity of the order flow
prior to the May 6th 2010 Flash Crash. Furthermore, Wood, Upson and McInish


6NYSE implements price-bands known as “Liquidity Replenishment Points” (LRP) intended to
dampen volatility in a given stock by temporarily converting from an automated market to a manual auction market when a price movement of sufficient size is reached. In such a case, trading on NYSE
in that stock will go to “Slow Quote” Mode and automatic executions will cease for a time period ranging
from a fraction of a second to a minute or two to allow the Designated Market Maker to solicit and/or
contribute additional liquidity before returning to an automated market. LRP limits vary according to
each security’s share price and average daily volume within specified ranges, generally falling between 1%
and 5% of share price.
7Stub quotes are order placed well off a stock’s market price.


4


(2012) find that trading aggressiveness was significantly higher for that entire day,
proxied by the use of ISOs [8] . They show that the information content of ISO trades
on the day of the May 6th Flash Crash was highly informed. During the May 6th
Flash Crash, while the ISO volume was at 32% of total volume, ISO trades accounted
for over 50% of the contribution to the price variance. They show that as liquidity
decreases in the market, it leads to an increase in ISO use, accelerating market decline whilst speeding-up the market recovery - they recommend considerations of an
ISO halt during periods of high market wide volatility. Cespa and Foucault (2012)
argue that the May 6th 2010 Flash Crash is due to the self-reinforcing relationship
between price informativeness and liquidity leading to contagion and fragility in
the market. Finally, Paddrik et. al. (2011), create a zero-intelligence agent based
model of eMini S&P 500 futures market and validate the simulated market against
empirically observed characteristics of price returns and volatility. They illustrate
the applicability of the simulation and present experimental results which examine
the hypothesis for the cause of the May 6th 2010 Flash Crash. Biais, Foucault,
Moinas (2012) claim that since HFTs can process information on stock values faster
than slow traders, adverse selection could lead to systemic risk events, such as the
May 6th 2010 Flash Crash.


Unlike all previous studies described above, we examine the characteristics of
Mini Flash Crashes. Mini Flash Crashes, or Flash Equity Failures, were first identified by Nanex Llc., therefore we adopt their definition (Nanex, 2010). To qualify
as a _**down crash**_ candidate, the stock price change has to satisfy the following
conditions:


(i) it has to tick _down_ at least 10 times before ticking _up_,


(ii) price changes have to occur within 1.5 seconds,


(iii) price change has to exceed -0.8%.


Likewise, to qualify as an _**up crash**_ candidate, the stock price change has to satisfy
the following conditions:


(i) it has to tick _up_ at least 10 times before ticking _down_,


(ii) price changes have to occur within 1.5 seconds,


(iii) price change has to exceed 0.8%.


As far as we are aware, the only comparable work on Mini Flash Crashes is that
by Johnson et. al. (2012), in which a set of 18,520 Mini Flash Crashes occurring


8An ISO is a limit order designated for quick and automatic execution in a specific market center and
can be executed at the target market even when another market center is publishing a better quotation.
Without the need to search for the best quotation during their execution, such orders can possibly achieve
faster execution than regular market orders, even though both types of orders demand liquidity and move
price. When submitting an ISO, the submitting investor also needs to fulfill Regulation NMS orderprotection obligations by concurrently sending orders to other market centres with Protected Quotations.
Each order in the package must be marked as an ISO and the orders sent to the market(s) posting
Protected Quotation must be of sufficient quantity to match their displayed depth at the Top of the
Book. Importantly, ISO orders are not subject to auto-routing and are identified with a trade indicator
”F” by the trade initiator. The sweep ends when the order quantity is satisfied, the limit price is reached,
or when the order hits an intervening LRP set by the market. Although trade-through can, and does,
occur, ISOs are deemed to satisfy the Order Protection Rule under Regulation NMS. Chakravarty, Jain,
Upson, and Wood (2009) provide detailed regulatory background on ISOs.


5


between 2006 and 2011 are analysed. Johnson et. al. (2012) provide empirical evidence for, and an accompanying theory of, an abrupt system-wide transition from a
mixed human-machine phase to a new all-machine phase characterized by frequent
black swan events of ultrafast duration. This theory quantifies the systemic fluctuations in these two distinct phases in terms of the diversity of the system’s internal
ecology and the amount of global information being processed. The ten most susceptible entities are found to be major international banks, suggesting that there is
a hidden relationship between these ultrafast “fractures” and the slow “breaking”
of the global financial system post-2006. Further, they suggest that: _“...these ul-_
_trafast black swans are not simply the product of some pathological regulatory rule_
_for crashes...”_ . In contrast, we find evidence that regulatory framework and market
fragmentation are the primary cause of Mini Flash Crashes.

### **3 Dataset**


The dataset used in this study includes all quotes disseminated by the Consolidated
Quotation System (CQS) and trades disseminated by Consolidated Tape System
(CTS) for NYSE, NYSE Amex, NYSE Arca listed securities, and Unlisted Trading Privileges (UTP) Quote Data Feed disseminated quotes and UTP Trade Data
Feed disseminated trades for NASDAQ listed securities, as well as trades reported
from Alternative Trade Facilities (ADF) and Trade Reporting Facilities (TRF) [9] .
The messages are placed in the database as they are aggregated from the Security
Information Processor (SIP), and correspond to the information that professional
traders receive in real-time. Each message is time stamped to a precision of 25 milliseconds, and contains information relating to time, price, size, exchange issuance
and eventual trade or quote condition.


In this study we have analyzed four months of Mini Flash Crashes occurring in
September to November 2008, and May 2010, giving a total of 5140 crashes, made
up of 2760 up crashes and 2380 down crashes. Figure 2. presents the daily number
of up and down crashes from the period 2006-2011. The shadowed area indicates the
crashes analysed in this study. The purpose of studying Mini Flash Crashes in the
targeted four months is twofold: (i) the corresponding periods were highly volatile
including the unfolding of the global financial crisis, and the collapse of Lehman
Brothers and the May 6th 2010 Flash Crash; (ii) analysis of Mini Flash Crashes
means processing billions of trades and quotes, therefore we selected months with
the most crashes - hence our dataset covers over one-quarter (27.75%) of all Mini
Flash Crashes reported to have occurred in the period of 2006-2011.


9Trades that are executed off the exchange, including dark pool trades, internalized trades and ECN
trades, are reported to the consolidated tape indirectly through ADF and TRF. These trades are absent
from our analysis as they are executed at the NBBO.


6


**Daily Occurrences of Down Crashes**


2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011

Time


**Daily Occurrences of Up Crashes**


2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011

Time


**Figure 2: Daily occurrences of Up and Down Crashes 2006-2011** . The shadowed area marks the
crashes analyzed in this study, corresponding to months September to November 2008, and May 2010.
The Y axis presents the number of daily occurrences and is on a log scale.

### **4 Results and Analyses**


In this section we analyse the characteristics and mechanics of two types of Mini
Flash Crashes, ISO-initiated and auto-routing initiated outlined later in this section. Based on this two definitions, we have identified 71.49% of the Mini Flash
Crashes in our dataset, and conclude that the overwhelming majority of crashes is
due to aggressive use of ISOs.


We begin our analysis by presenting the descriptive statistics of Mini Flash
Crashes. Table 1. reports the average percentage price change in a crash, the average duration of the crash, the average trade size in a crash, the average number
of trades per crash and the average number of ISO trades as a percentage of total
number trades. When computing the average percentage price change in a crash,
we have excluded crashes in penny-stocks, as well as percentage price changes exceeding 100% as they heavily bias the average value. As the crashes occur on a


7


single exchange, we report the percentages of crashes at six exchanges, with NYSE,
Nasdaq and Arca covering the majority of the crashes. Further, an extremely high
number of ISO marked trades can be immediately noticed, where they constitute
the overwhelming majority of trades in the crashes. This is an evidence on excessive use of ISOs corresponds to the findings of Chakravarty, Jain, Upson, and Wood
(2009) who attribute their findings to informed investors. Here we cannot attribute
high ISO usage to informed trading, as the trades in the crashes are executed well
off market prices.


**Table 1: Descriptive Statistics and Classification of Mini Flash Crashes** .
This table shows descriptive statistics for the Mini Flash Crashes, as well as monthly descriptive statistics
for September to November 2008, and May 2010:

(i) _Avg % Change_ is the average total percentage price change in a crash. We have excluded Mini Flash
Crashes occurring in penny-stocks and those Mini Flash Crashes with percentage price changes
exceeding 100%, as they heavily bias the average value;


(ii) _Avg Time_ is the average time of the crash in milliseconds;


(iii) _Avg Trade Vol_ is the average total volume of the trades;


(iv) _Avg No of Trades_ is the average number of trades;


(v) _ISO Trades_ is the average number of ISO marked trades, as a percentage of total number of trades.


Sep 2008 Oct 2008 Nov 2008 May 2010 Total
Total Crashes 1058 2919 672 491 5140
Up Crashes 527 1709 337 187 2760
Down Crashes 531 1210 335 304 2380


ISO initiated 719 (67,96%) 1922 (65,84%) 519 (77,23%) 328 (66,80 %) 3488 (67,85%)
auto-routing initiated 29 (2,74%) 171 (5,86%) 11 (1,63%) 27 (4,02%) 238 (4,64%)
unclassifed 310 (29,30%) 826 (28,30%) 142 (21,13%) 136 (27,70%) 1414 (27,51%)


Avg % Change 2,69% 2,14% 2,17% 4,12% 2,45%
Avg Time 437 432 374 319 413
Avg Trade Vol 12465,97 13900,13 18390,18 14810,52 14352,39
Avg No of Trades 21,15 17,98 19,08 19,72 18,94
ISO Trades 89,53% 85,80% 89,95% 84,30% 86,98%


by Exchanges
NYSE 37,09% 67,56% 58,14% 58,41% 59,29%
NASDAQ 32,58% 18,75% 23,94% 19,39% 22,28%
ARCA 29,03% 13,15% 17,43% 19,39% 17,52%
AMEX 1,30% 0,46% 0,16% 1,17% 0,65%
BATS 0,00% 0,00% 0,33% 1,40% 0,19%
ISE 0,00% 0,08% 0,00% 0,23% 0,07%


8


In order for a crash to be classified as _**ISO-initiated**_, it has to satisfy the
following:


(i) the conditions defining a Mini Flash Crash set out in Section 2 must be satisfied,


(ii) the trades constituting the Mini Flash Crash have to be marked ISO, except
for the first _k_ trades that can be marked as non-ISO if they are executed within
the least aggressive market-wide available best quotes [10] in the previous one
(1) second.


The motivation for allowing the first _k_ trades to be marked as non-ISO is threefold.
Firstly, the _k_ mentioned trades can be part of the Order Protection compliance of
ISO trades initiated at another exchange, followed by regular marked trades at the
domestic exchange, and therefore not a part of the ISO package of trades constituting a Mini Flash Crash that sweeps the order book. Secondly, the first _k_ trades that
can be non-ISO, may be a part of an auto-routing procedure of another exchange
complying with the Order Protection Rule, and therefore not relevant to the mechanics of ISO-initiated Mini Flash Crashes, as the auto-routing procedure will only
send the part of the order matching the displayed depth at the Top of the Book,
while the remaining balance of the order will be filled elsewhere. Thirdly, allowing
the eventual non-ISO trades to be executed within the least aggressive quotes in the
previous one (1) second allows the reference prices for execution to be compliant
with Flicker Quote Protection.


Figure 3 illustrates the mechanics of ISO-initiated Mini Flash Crashes.


**Figure 3: ISO Initiated Mini Flash Crash** . A trader submits a package of ISO-marked orders to
exchange A and simultaneously sends ISO-marked orders matching the size of Protected Quotes to all
trading venues quoting at the NBBO. ISO-marked orders rip through the order book at exchange A
resulting in a Mini Flash Crash, despite the additional liquidity available deeper in the order book at
other trading venues.


10We require that these quotes are not _stub quotes_ .


9


In practical terms, allowing the first _k_ trades to be marked as non-ISO, manifests
in the dataset as the execution of several trades within the best quotation, either
marked as ISO or non-ISO, followed by a series of ISO-marked trades that sweep
the order book at a single exchange, executed outside of the best quotation.


The second distinct type of Mini Flash Crashes, although less common than
the ISO-initiated Mini Flash Crashes, have trades marked as regular. Prior to this
type of crashes occurring, we note that all trading venues quoting at the NBBO
have their Top of the Book cleared with trades preceding the crashes. Once the
Protected Quotation is matched with trades, the subsequent trades constituting the
crash occur on a single exchange. It is straightforward to explain what happens in
these crashes [11] : when an exchange receives an order and it is not displaying the
NBBO, in order to comply with the Order Protection rule, it has to route part of
the order to exchanges showing the NBBO. After the Protected Quotation on other
exchanges has been cleared, the exchange is free to fill the remaining part of the
order, regardless of whether there is a better quotation deeper in the order book at
other trading centres. Figure 4 illustrates this procedure.


**Figure 4: Auto-routing initiated Mini Flash Crash** . A trader submits an order to exchange A
and, as exchange A is not displaying the NBBO, the part of the order matching the size of the Protected
Quotation at exchange B will be routed to comply with the Order Protection rule. Once the Protected
Quotation at exchange B is cleared, the resulting balance of orders will be filled at exchange A regardless
of the prevailing liquidity at other trading venues, resulting in a Mini Flash Crash.


Based on this example, we define a second type of Mini Flash Crash. In order for
a crash to be classified as _**auto-routing-initiated**_, it has to satisfy the following:


(i) the conditions defining a Mini Flash Crash set out in Section 2 have to be
satisfied,


(ii) trades constituting the Mini Flash Crash have to be marked as regular, except
for the first _k_ trades that can be marked as non-regular if they are executed


11Dennis Dick of Bright Trading was the first to provide an example of such a Mini Flash Crash and
explain what occurs - see (Dick, 2011)


10


with the least aggressive market-wide available best quotes in the previous one
(1) second,


(iii) prior to execution of regular marked trades constituting the Mini Flash Crash,
the Top of the Book has to be cleared for all exchanges quoting at the NBBO.


The justification for allowing the first _k_ trades to be marked as non-regular is
similar to that in the ISO-initiated Mini Flash Crash definition. The last condition
requires that quotes matching the NBBO are cleared as a part of the routing procedure of trades constituting the auto-routing-initiated Mini Flash Crash.


Following these definitions we classify 3488 (67.85%) of crashes as ISO-initiated
and 238 (4.64%) as auto-routing-initiate; the remaining 1414 crashes (27.,51%) are
left unclassified.While the two types of Mini Flash Crashes are different in their
underlying mechanics, both types are the result of the lack of protection for Depth
of Book quotations. In many cases there is a significant amount of liquidity on
the other exchanges during the time frame of interest, available deeper in the order
book. However, as the Order Protection rule only protects the Top of the Book,
trades can occur at vastly inferior prices resulting in Mini Flash Crashes in a particular exchange.


Finally, we speculate on _who_ might be causing Mini Flash Crashes. As stressed
earlier, most crashes happen due to aggressive use of ISOs. ISO-initiated trades can
only be executed by broker-dealers and traders with sponsored access. As typical
institutional or retail investors do not have access to such trading mechanisms, they
can clearly be ruled out as potential perpetrators. Given the speed and the magnitude of the crashes, it appears likely that Mini Flash Crashes are caused by HFT
activity.

### **5 Liquidity Shocks**

#### **5.1 Previous Studies**


Despite the criticisms of computerized trading by the popular press and market participants, academic work has found little evidence that the practice is detrimental
to financial markets. Recent studies show that, in general, computerized trading
improves traditional measures of market quality and contributes to price discovery.
Hendershott and Rioran (2009) study the 30 largest DAX stocks on the Deutche
Boerse and find that Algorithmic Trading (AT) represents a large fraction of the
order flow and contribute more to price discovery than their human counterparts.
Moreover, algorithmic traders are more likely to be at the inside quote when spreads
are high than when spreads are low suggesting that algorithmic traders supply liquidity when it is expensive and demand liquidity when it is cheap. The authors
find no evidence that AT increases volatility. Hendershott, Jones and Menkveld
(2011) examine the impact AT has on market quality of NYSE listed stocks. Using
normalized measure of NYSE message traffic surrounding the NYSE’s implementation of automatic quote dissemination in 2003, they find AT narrows spreads,
reduces adverse selection, and increases the informativeness of quotes, especially
for larger stocks. Hasbrouck and Saar (2012) measure HFT activity by identifying ”strategic runs” of submission, cancellation, and executions in NASDAQ order


11


book. The authors find that HFT improves market quality through decreasing short
term volatility, spreads and depth of the order book. Menkveld (2011) claims a large
high frequency trader provides liquidity and its entrance corresponds with the decrease in spreads. Brogaard (2010) examines the impact of HFT on the US equity
market using a unique HFT dataset for 120 stocks listed on NASDAQ. Brogaard
finds that HFT adds to price discover, provides the best bid and offer quotes for a
significant portion of the trading day, and reduces volatility. However the extent to
which HFT improves liquidity is mixed as the depth high frequency traders provide
to the order book is a quarter of that provided by non-high frequency traders.


Although the previous studies applied standard approaches of econometrics, they
are bounded by strong assumptions and only provide a summary parameters typical
of econometric analysis. There is a need for forensic studies, taking into account
different assumptions and using different techniques to search and critically examine the data. Although these studies have looked at the fine grain level of time
in which algorithms trade, they have focused on the great mass of the data where
individual events such as Mini Flash Crashes, though extreme and unusual, can be
easily overlooked. The standard econometric tests will be insensitive to Mini Flash
Crashes, because these are minor in the context of the length of these incidents
and frequencies. In this section we examine market quality by placing Mini Flash
Crashes at the centre of our analysis with an event study and evaluate the difference in market liquidity 60 seconds before and after the occurrence of Mini Flash
Crashes. Contrary to previous studies, we find strong evidence of HFT having an
adverse impact on liquidity during Mini Flash Crashes.

#### **5.2 Spread Difference**


Firstly, we evaluate the difference in spread before and after the occurrence of Mini
Flash Crashes. We define midprice as the average of the quoted bid and offer


_MidPrice_ = _[offer]_ [ +] _[ bid]_ (1)

2


and compute the spread as:


_Spread_ = _[offer][ −]_ _[bid]_ (2)

_MidPrice_ _[·]_ [ 100%] _[.]_


The quoted spread is divided by midprice in order to account for pricing differential
between low priced and high priced stocks. We evaluate the midprice spread resulting from the quotes of the exchange where the Mini Flash Crash will occur, termed
Exchange Spread, and also observing the NBBO derived midprice spread, termed
NBBO Spread. For the NBBO Spread the offer and bid quote are the National
Best Offer and Bid disseminated by the CQS. If the NBBO quotes are locked or
crossed we assign NBBO Spread of 0. The data is smoothed over 100 millisecond
time interval. For presentation in Figure 5. the midprice is scaled to zero in the
Y-axis.


Figure 5 shows that Mini Flash Crashes have detrimental impact on the Exchange Spread and NBBO Spread. In the 60 seconds prior to the occurrence of a
Mini Flash Crash both NBBO Spread and Exchange Spread are stable and equal


12


**NBBO Spread**


-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**Exchange Spread**


-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**Figure 5: NBBO Spread and Exchange Spread.** The figure shows a NBBO Spread (upper graph)
and Exchange Spread (lower graph) in the period of 60 seconds before and after the occurrence of a Mini
Flash Crash. The midprice is scaled to 0 on the Y-axis.


on average to 0 _._ 24% and 0 _._ 46% respectively. Both NBBO Spread and Exchange
Spread rapidly increase after the Mini Flash Crash to 0 _._ 58% and 1 _._ 32% in the following 60 seconds, which amounts to increases of 141 _._ 60% and 188 _._ 05% respectively.
Furthermore, we notice that even though Mini Flash Crashes occur extremely fast
(within 1.5 seconds by definition), their impact on quoted spread persisted for the
whole 60 seconds afterwards.

#### **5.3 Locked and Crossed NBBO Quotes**


Next, we evaluate the percentage of locked and crossed NBBO quotes among all
quotes before and after the Mini Flash Crashes. Locked and crossed NBBO quotes
occur in a given security when the National Best Bid is higher than, or equal to, the
National Best Offer. Rule 611 of Regulation NMS prohibits submission of a quote
that would lock or cross the market. Crossed NBBO quotes present risk-less profit
for the fastest traders as they can profit by simultaneously buying the security at


13


the crossed offer quote and selling it at the crossed bid quote. Figure 6 shows the
results of the analysis, 60 seconds prior and after the Mini Flash Crash. Mini Flash


**Percentage of Locked** & **Crossed NBBO Quotes**


-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**Figure 6: Locked** & **Crossed NBBO Quotes.** The figure shows the percentage of locked and crossed
NBBO quotes in the 60 seconds period prior to the occurrence of a Mini Flash Crash, and the 60 seconds
period after the occurrence of a Mini Flash Crash.


Crashes have major impact on the percentage of locked or crossed NBBO quotes,
which averaged 8 _._ 01% in 60 seconds before the crash, jumps to 24 _._ 40% after to crash
and declines to 8 _._ 23% in the 60 after the crash.


14


#### **5.4 Quoted Volume**

Finally we analyse the average quoted volume, as measured by the number of shares,
at the NBBO before and after the Mini Flash Crashes. Figure 7 presents our results.


**National Best Bid Liquidity**

|Col1|Col2|Average Bid Liquidity|
|---|---|---|
|||~~pre Mini Flash Crash~~<br>post Mini Flash Crash|
||||
||||
||||
||||



-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**National Best Offer Liquidity**

|Col1|Col2|Average Offer Liquidity<br>pre Mini Flash Crash<br>post Mini Flash Crash|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||
||||



-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**Figure 7: Quoted Liquidity at NBBO.** The figure shows the average quoted liquidity at the National
Best Bid (upper graph) and National Best Offer (lower graph) in the 60 second period before and after
the occurrence of s Mini Flash Crash. The Y-axis is in log scale.


It shows that quoted volume at the NBBO decreases after the Mini Flash
Crashes. Before the crash the average quoted volume at the National Best Bid and
Offer are, respectively 1575.05 and 1323.49 shares, which drop to 1272.05 shares
(reduction of 19 _._ 23%) and 1210.30 (reduction of 9 _._ 35%) after the crash.


For the exchanges where the Mini Flash Crash occurred, the statistics are 1196.9
and 991.58 shares, respectively for best Bid and Offer, which drops to 870.42 (reduction of 37 _._ 51%) and 990.99 shares (reduction of 0 _._ 06%). Figure 8 illustrates these
results.


From the analysis of quoted liquidity we note that even though there is reduction
in quoted liquidity both on the offer and bid side of the market after the occurrence


15


**Exchange Bid Liquidity**

|Col1|Col2|Average Bid Liquidity|
|---|---|---|
|||pre Mini Flash Crash<br>post Mini Flash Crash|
||||
||||
||||
||||



-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**Exchange Offer Liquidity**

|Col1|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|||~~Average Oﬀer Liquidity~~<br>|
|||~~pre Mini Flash Crash~~<br>~~post Mini Flash Crash~~|
||||
||||
||||
||||
||||



-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60


Time


**Figure 8: Quoted Liquidity at Exchange where Mini Flash Crashes occur.** The figure shows
the quoted liquidity at the exchange Best Bid (upper graph) and exchange Best Offer (lower graph) in
the 60 second period before and after the occurrence of Mini Flash Crash


of Mini Flash Crashes, this reduction is asymmetric as the decrease is greater on
the bid, and in fact there appeared to be sell-side pressure in the markets after the
crash.

### **6 Fleeting Liquidity**


Today’s traders operate in a tiered market environment where co-location and direct data feeds have made it possible for some participants to obtain tremendous
speed advantage, rapidly submitting orders and instantaneously cancelling them.
For instance, Hasbrouck and Saar (2012) note that traders (e.g. broker-dealers,
market makers or HF traders) can respond to changes in quotes on NASDAQ limit
order book in 2 to 3 milliseconds. The speed in which the quotes are posted and
cancelled has been criticised by market participants as it creates a false sense of
overpriced supply and demand for a stock. Sean Hendelman, CEO at T3 Capital,
articulated this concern, “People are relying on the [stock quote] data and the data


16


is not real.”. [12] We call such artificial liquidity, Fleeting Liquidity.


Many researchers have begun to analyse the implication of this speed advantage.
For instance, Cohen and Szpurch (2012) consider the case of a single security market
based on a limit order book and two investors, with different speeds of trade execution and show that the faster investor front-runs the slower investor and hence earns
risk free profit. Further, van Kervel (2012) claims that combined liquidity offered
on the limit order books may strongly overestimate the actual liquidity available
to investors, due to HF traders operating as market makers, duplicating their limit
order schedules on several venues to increase their execution probabilities. This
is confirmed by empirical results that show trades on the most active venues are
followed by cancellations of limit orders on competing venues. McInish and Upson
(2012) show empirically that latency differences allow fast liquidity suppliers to pick
off slow liquidity demanders at prices inferior to the NBBO. They estimate that fast
traders earn more than $233 million per year at the expense of slow traders. Watson, Van Ness and Van Ness (2012) find a structural break between 2001-2005 and
2005-2010 where there is a dramatic increase in the number of limit orders which
are cancelled. They document commonality in the cancellation rates in all stocks
of an exchange or across exchanges.


Mini Flash Crashes present a unique opportunity to analyze displayed liquidity
at a time of severe stress, as it is presumed that due to the speed of the crashes it is
not possible to predict them and withdraw liquidity by cancelling resting limit orders. Further, it has been claimed that price moves in the stock market are usually
not caused by market makers backing away. Specifically, Gregg Berman, a senior
adviser to the director of the SEC’s trading and markets division suggest, “...these
events ... were generally not caused by a sudden withdraw of liquidity by market
makers.” [13] .


We say that a Mini Flash Crash experienced Fleeting Liquidity if the quotes
disseminated by the SIP are not hit during the occurrence of Mini Flash Crash.
This means the best displayed quotation was cancelled faster than the SIP could
disseminate the removal of these resting limit orders. Table 2 shows the statistics
of Fleeting Liquidity phenomenon. We note that the phenomenon of Fleeting Liquidity is as often as 37 _._ 99% of Mini Flash Crashes in our sample.


Next, we analyse the connection between Fleeting Liquidity and Mini Flash
Crashes with a logit regression on the following variables:


_• Time_ is the time of the crash in milliseconds;


_• %PriceChange_ is the absolute percentage price change in a crash;


_• Exch_ an indicator variable equal to 1 if the crash occurred on NYSE, 2 if it
occurred on Nasdaq, 3 if it occurred on ARCA, 4 if it occurred on AMEX, 5
if it occurred on BATS and 6 if it occurred on ISE;


_• Vol_ is the total volume in the crash;


12“SEC Probes Canceled Trades”, Lauricella, T. and Strasburg, J. _The Wall Street Journal_, September
2, 2010.
13“Market Structure: What we Know, and What we Need to Know”, Berman, G.E., _12 Annual SIFMA_
_Market Structure Conference_, New York, September 21, 2011


17


_• UpDown_ is an indicator variable equal to 0 if it was a down crash, and 1 if it
was an up crash;


_• NoTrades_ is the number of trades in a crash;


_• Type_ is an indicator variable equal to 1 if the crash was ISO-initiated, 2 if it
was auto-routing-initiated, and 3 if it is unclassified;


_• FleetLiq_ is the dependent variable whose value is equal 0 if the crash did not
experience the phenomenon of Fleeting Liquidity, and 1 if it did;


The logit regression has the following form;




        - P( _FleetLiqi_ = 1)
ln
1 _−_ P( _FleetLiqi_ = 1)


where the function _f_ equals


_f_ ( _Xi|α_ ) =




= _f_ ( _Xi|α_ ) (3)



_α_ 0 + _α_ 1 _· Timei_ + _α_ 2 _·_ % _PriceChangei_ + _α_ 3 _· Exchi_
+ _α_ 4 _· V oli_ + _α_ 5 _· UpDowni_ + _α_ 6 _· NbTradesi_ + _α_ 6 _· Typei_


for _Xi_ = ( _Timei,_ % _PriceChangei, Exchi, V oli, UpDowni, NbTradesi, Typei_ ) and
_α_ = ( _α_ 0 _, α_ 1 _, α_ 2 _, α_ 3 _, α_ 4 _, α_ 5 _, α_ 6). We label the predicted variable _FleetLiq_ - with 1
(Fleeting Liquidity) if the predicted probability


1
_p_               - _i_ = 1 + _e_ _[−][f]_ [(] _[X][i][|][α]_ [�][)] (4)


is greater than 0.5, otherwise we label it with 0 (no Fleeting Liquidity). In Table
2 we present the results of the logit regression: two variables, _Time_ and _Vol_, are
statistically significant at the 1% level, and _NbTrades_ is statistically significant at
the 5% level, all three coefficients are negative, implying that Fleeting Liquidity is
characteristic of ultra-fast Mini Flash Crashes of small volume and a small number
of trades. The fitted logit regression has a classification precision of 54.80%.


18


**Table 2: Statistics of Mini Flash Crashes with Fleeting Liquidity phenomenon and logistic**
**regression results** .
This table shows the results of logistic regression; the variables are defined as in the text above.


Sep 2008 Oct 2008 Nov 2008 May 2010 Total
Total Crashes 1058 2919 672 491 5140
Up Crashes 527 1709 337 187 2760
Down Crashes 531 1210 335 304 2380


Fleeting Liquidity 377 (35,63%) 1114 (38,16%) 289 (43,00%) 173 (35,23%) 1953 (37,99%)


FleetLiq
Intercept 0.1444
(1,4678)
Time _−_ 0 _._ 2065 _[∗∗]_

(-2,7481)
%PriceChange 0.1098
(0,7346)
Exch 0.0102
(0,2474)
Vol -4.6876E-6 _[∗∗]_

(-2,7527)
UpDown 0.0022
(0,0738)
NoTrades _−_ 0 _._ 0067 _[∗]_

(-2,2836)
Type -0.0464
(-1,0201)
Classifcation Precision 54,80%
~~_∗∗_~~ Statistically Significant at 1% Level
_∗_ Statistically Signifcant at 5% Level

### **7 Discussion**


At the heart of the Regulation NMS is the Order Protection Rule aimed to unify
US equity markets and establish intermarket protection against inferior execution.
While the regulation has served its purpose initially, the current market environment might not be suitable for an ecosystem dominated by speed traders. Mini
Flash Crashes have become the consequence of the fragmented liquidity that is
indicative of the current market structure with its myriad of trading venues. As
more and more exchanges are created, traders need to be increasingly aware of the
current market structure. Unfortunately, the trading in US equity markets is split
between 13 public exchanges, more than 30 dark pools and over 200 internalizing
broker-dealers (Shapiro, 2010) making it difficult for all participants of the capital markets to access liquidity in an organized manner. As the number of trading
venues increases, imbalances in liquidity across these venues will naturally result,
creating an opportunity for the fastest traders to profit by scouring the markets
for imbalances and eliminating them. Mini Flash Crashes demonstrate that market
participants require a better understanding of how their orders take liquidity. The
visible liquidity at the time an order was placed does not necessarily remain when
the order is executed – but rather the converse.


Extending the Order Protection rule to the Depth of the Book may be a quick


19


fix to the Mini Flash Crashes studied here. Traders would then be unable to trade
through resting limit orders with superior prices deeper in the order book at other
trading venues. However, such a requirement for market participants to comply
with the same trade-through protection for the entire Depth of the Book quotations
would be extremely costly and complex. In a market environment where fleeting
orders located deeper in the order book have been found to contribute little to the
overall liquidity (Gai, Yao, Ye, 2012), it is practically impossible to uphold such
regulation. Moreover, there is no guarantee that protecting quotations at multiple
price levels would encourage the display of limit orders and improve overall liquidity.
Further, several unintended consequences may arise from this full order-book protection proposal, as it would create a tremendous amount of confusion as to how and
where to route an order. With Fleeting Liquidity, displayed limit orders deeper in
the order book might be cancelled faster than it would take an exchange to route an
order to the trading venue in question, resulting in partial or no execution of trades.


Nonetheless, the aggressive use of ISOs resulting in Mini Flash Crashes should
not be tolerated. Note that the ISO package of orders is submitted with a limit
price, meaning that traders submitting such orders are well aware that the corresponding execution on trading venues with poor liquidity might result in trades
that are well off the NBBO. We suggest that regulators pay particular attention to
ISO-initiated Mini Flash Crashes and take appropriate actions against market participants responsible for such Mini Flash Crashes. Finally, we note that the abuse
of ISOs has also been mentioned in the context of _latency arbitrage_ . Narang (2010)
pointed out that U.S. broker-dealer HF traders with access to direct data feeds can
profit from the latency of SIP consolidating the NBBO system by using ISO. ISOs
allow these market participants to send orders directly to market places while the
markets appear to be locked due to the latency of the respective consolidated data
feeds. This situation may lead to a violation of price-time priority, as ISOs may
directly be posted and executed, while normal orders could not be directly posted
and executed because they would appear to lock the market. [14] In view of this, we
also suggest regulators should consider the banning of ISOs.

### **8 Conclusion**


In this article we analyse Mini Flash Crashes in US equity markets. We find that
Mini Flash Crashes are the result of regulatory framework and market fragmentation; in particular due to aggressive use of Intermarket Sweep Orders and Regulation
NMS protecting only the Top of the Book. We find that Mini Flash Crashes have
an adverse impact on market liquidity resulting in wider spread, increased number
of locked and crossed NBBO quotes and decrease in quoted volume. Finally, we
document the phenomenon of Fleeting Liquidity associated with ultra-fast crashes
Mini Flash Crashes of small volume, and a small number of trades.


14For details of please refer to (Narang, 2010).


20


### **9 Bibliography**

Biais, B., Foucault, T., Moinas, S., (2011), _Equilibrium High Frequency Trading_
Brogaard, J. A., (2010), _High Frequency Trading and its Impact on Market Qual-_
_ity_, Working Paper
Chakravarty, S., Jain, P., Upson, J., Wood, R., (2010), _Clean Sweep: Informed_
_Trading through Intermarket Sweep Orders_, forthcoming, Journal of Financial and
Quantitative Analysis
Cespa, G., Foucault, T., (2012), _Illiquidity Contagion and Liquidity Crashes_
Cohen, S., N., Szpruch, L., (2012), _A Limit Order Book for Latency Arbitrage_
Dick, D., (2011), _Unlocking the Mystery Behind the IBM ”Flash Dash”_, Bright
[Trading, http://www.defendtrading.com/blog.html?entry=unlocking-the-mystery-behind-](http://www.defendtrading.com/blog.html?entry=unlocking-the-mystery-behind-the)
[the](http://www.defendtrading.com/blog.html?entry=unlocking-the-mystery-behind-the)
Easley, D., Lopez de Prado, M., O’Hara, M., (2011), _The Microstructure of_
_”Flash Crash”: Flow Toxicity, Liquidity Crashes and the Probability of Informed_
_Trading_, The Journal of Portfolio Management, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 118-128
Egginton, J., Van Ness, B., Van Ness, R., (2012), _Quote Stuffing_
Gai, J., Yao, C., Ye, M., (2012), _The Externality of High Frequency Trading_
Hasbrouck, J., Saar, G., (2012), _Low-Latency Trading_
Hendershoot, T., Johnes, M. C., Menkveld A., (2011), _Does Algorithmic Trading_
_Improve Liquidity?_, The Journal of Finance 66, 1-33
Hendershoot, T., Riordan, R., (2009), _Algorithmic Trading and Information_,
Working Paper, NET Institute
Jarrow, R., A., Protter, P., (2011), _A Dysfunctional Role of High Frequency_
_Trading in Electronic Markets_
Johnson, N., Zhao, G., Hunsader, E., Meng, J., Ravindar A., Carran, S., Tivnan, B., (2012), _Financial Black Swans Driven by Ultrafast Machine Ecology_
Kirilenko, A., Kyle, A., S., Samadi, M., Tuzun, T., (2011), _The Flash Crash:_
_The Impact of High Frequency Trading on an Electronic Market_
McInish, T., Upson, J., (2012), _Strategic Liquidity Supply in a Market with Fast_
_and Slow Traders_
Menkveld, A. J., (2011), _High Frequency Trading and the New Market Makers_,
Working Paper
Nanex, (2011), _Flash Equity Failures in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011_,
[http://www.nanex.net/FlashCrashEquities/FlashCrashAnalysisEquities.html](http://www.nanex.net/FlashCrashEquities/FlashCrashAnalysis$_$Equities.html)
Nanex, (2010), _Nanex Flash Crash Summary Report_,
[http://www.nanex.net/FlashCrashFinal/FlashCrashSummary.html](http://www.nanex.net/FlashCrashFinal/FlashCrashSummary.html)
Nanex, (2010), _May 6’th 2010 Flash Crash Analysis - Final Conclusion_,
[http://www.nanex.net/FlashCrashFinal/FlashCrashAnalysisTheory.html](http://www.nanex.net/FlashCrashFinal/FlashCrashAnalysis$_$Theory.html)
Narang, M., (2010), _Tradeworx Presentation on High Frequency Trading_, Tradeworx
Paddrik, M., Hayes, R., Todd, A., Yang, S., Beiling, P., Scherer, W., (2011), _An_
_Agent Based Model of the E-Mini S&P 500_
Schapiro, L. M., (2010), _Strengthening Our Equity Market Structure_, US Securities and Exchange Commission Economic Club of New York, New York
US Securities and Exchange Commission, (2010), _Findings Regarding the Market_
_Events of May 6, 2010_
van Kervel, V., (2012), _Liquidity: What You See is What You Get?_
Watson, E., Van Ness, B., Van Ness, R., (2012), _Cancelling Liquidity_
Wood, R., Upson, J., McInish, T., H., (2012), _The Flash Crash: Trading Ag-_


21


_gressiveness, Liquidity Supply, and the Impact of Intermarket Sweep Orders_


22


