### HIGH-FREQUENCY FINANCIAL MARKET SIMULATION AND
#### FLASH CRASH SCENARIOS ANALYSIS: AN AGENT-BASED MODELLING APPROACH

Kang Gao [1,2*], Perukrishnen Vytelingum [2], Stephen Weston [1], Wayne Luk [1], and Ce Guo [1]


1*Department of Computing, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK
2Simudyne Limited, London EC3V 9DS, UK
*Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): kang.gao18@imperial.ac.uk


August 30, 2022


**ABSTRACT**


This paper describes simulations and analysis of flash crash scenarios in an agent-based modelling
framework. We design, implement, and assess a novel high-frequency agent-based financial market
simulator that generates realistic millisecond-level financial price time series for the E-Mini S&P
500 futures market. Specifically, a microstructure model of a single security traded on a central
limit order book is provided, where different types of traders follow different behavioural rules.
The model is calibrated using the machine learning surrogate modelling approach. Statistical test
and moment coverage ratio results show that the model has excellent capability of reproducing
realistic stylised facts in financial markets. By introducing an institutional trader that mimics the
real-world Sell Algorithm [1] on May 6th, 2010, the proposed high-frequency agent-based financial
market simulator is used to simulate the Flash Crash that took place that day. We scrutinise the market
dynamics during the simulated flash crash and show that the simulated dynamics are consistent with
what happened in historical flash crash scenarios. With the help of Monte Carlo simulations, we
discover functional relationships between the amplitude of the simulated 2010 Flash Crash and three
conditions: the percentage of volume of the Sell Algorithm, the market maker inventory limit, and
the trading frequency of fundamental traders. Similar analyses are carried out for mini flash crash
events. An innovative "Spiking Trader" is introduced to the model, aiming at precipitating mini flash
crash events. We analyse the market dynamics during the course of a typical simulated mini flash
crash event and study the conditions affecting its characteristics. The proposed model can be used for
testing resiliency and robustness of trading algorithms and providing advice for policymakers.


_**K**_ **eywords** Agent-based Model _·_ Financial Market Simulator _·_ High-frequency Data _·_ Flash Crash


**JEL Classification** C52 _·_ C63 _·_ G17


**Acknowledgements**


The support of the UK EPSRC (Grant Nos. EP/L016796/1, EP/N031768/1, EP/P010040/1, EP/S030069/1 and
EP/V028251/1), Xilinx, and Intel is gratefully acknowledged. Kang Gao holds a China Scholarship Council-Imperial
Scholarship.


**Statements and Declarations**


**Competing Interests** The authors declare that they have no further conflict of interest.


1See SEC and CFTC (2010) for detailed description.


AUGUST 30, 2022


**1** **Introduction**


With the advent of electronic financial markets for the exchange of securities, the electronic centralized limit order
book has become the standard market mechanism for transaction matching and price discovery. This form of order
book offers market participants a more liquid market system with a small bid-ask price spread, increased market depth
and decreased transaction times.


Algorithmic trading is commonly defined as the use of computer algorithms to automatically make trading decisions,
submit orders, and carry out post-submission order management. In the past decade algorithmic trading has grown
rapidly across the world and has become the dominant way securities are traded in financial markets, currently generating
more than half of the volume of U.S. equity markets. Constantly improving computer technology and its application by
both traders and exchanges, together with the evolution of market micro-structure, automation of price quotation and
trade execution have together enabled faster trading. Nowadays the speed of order submission has become a principal
characteristic for distinguishing trading agents. Market participants known as high-frequency traders are capable of
trading hundreds of times in a second, using fast algorithms and specialized network connections with exchanges.
high-frequency traders are often orders of magnitude faster in order submission than other traders, and even other
trading algorithms.


The rise of algorithmic trading and high-frequency trading has had broad impacts on financial markets, especially
on the price discovery process and market price stability. One conspicuous impact is the increasingly frequent "flash
crash" in major financial markets. The flash crashes comprise large and rapid changes in the price of an asset that
does not coincide with changes in economic fundamental value for the asset. The flash crash events have occurred in
markets that are among the largest and most liquid exchanges in the world. One representative flash crash event is the
famous 2010 Flash Crash, which happened in the U.S. stock market on May 6th, 2010. During this flash crash event,
one market participant’s algorithm caused a sharp price drop in the E-mini S&P futures market. The flash crash soon
spread to other futures markets and equity markets. The market price fell almost 6% in just several minutes, while the
bulk of losses was recovered nearly as quickly. The 2010 Flash Crash led to turmoil market conditions and caused huge
market value loss. As for the cause of the 2010 Flash Crash, Kirilenko et al. (2017) show that the key events in the 2010
Flash Crash have clear relationships with regard to algorithmic trading.


The 2010 Flash Crash seems to be singular because of the fact that no following events have rivalled its depth,
breadth, and speed of price movement. Nevertheless, flash crashes on a smaller scale happen frequently. These events
are termed mini flash crashes (Johnson et al. 2012). According to Johnson et al. (2012), there were more than 18,000
mini flash crashes that are identified in the U.S. equity market between 2006 and 2011. As scaled-down versions of
the 2010 Flash Crash, mini flash crashes are abrupt and severe price changes occur in an extremely short time period
(Golub et al. 2012). Mini flash crashes are attracting great research interest because their frequent occurrence could
destabilize the financial market and undermine investor confidence (Golub et al. 2012).


The flash crash episodes [2], including large flash crash and mini flash crash events, are of significant concern to
researchers, practitioners, and policymakers. Financial markets in which price changes are orderly and reflect proper
changes in valuation factors are desirable. However, flash crash episodes could potentially disorganise such a desirable
market and cause adverse consequences for financial stability if they were to impede investment by undermining investor
confidence in the price at which securities could be transacted (Karvik et al. 2018). To prevent flash crash episodes
from becoming more frequent and longer-lasting, it is important to understand how such episodes arise. In this paper
we explore the dynamics during both large flash crashes and mini flash crashes. The main methodology employed here
is financial market simulation in agent-based models. The agent-based financial market simulation provides realistic
synthetic financial market data and a testbed for exploring dynamics during flash crash episodes and conditions that
influence the characteristics of flash crash episodes.


Financial market simulation based on agent-based models is a promising tool for understanding the dynamics of
financial markets. With huge potential academic and industrial value, agent-based financial market simulation has
gained extensive research attention in recent years. Financial market simulation by agent-based models is an exciting
new field for exploring behaviours of financial markets. An agent-based financial market simulation consists of a
number of distinct agents that follow predetermined rules in a manner analogous to how real-world trader behaves in
reality. Unlike traditional economic theories, there is no equilibrium assumption in agent-based financial markets. In
addition, traders are no longer assumed to have rational behaviours as in traditional economic theories. The removal of
these assumptions makes agent-based financial market simulation more realistic than traditional equilibrium-based
economic and financial theories. These advantages of agent-based financial market simulation make it possible to
explore complex phenomena such as flash crash episodes in modern financial markets, which is unachievable with
traditional equilibrium-based theories.


2We use "flash crashes", "flash crash episodes" and "flash crash scenarios" interchangeably in this article.


2


AUGUST 30, 2022


Various agent-based simulators have been developed in the literature. However, there are still gaps in creating ideal
agent-based financial market simulators that are capable of generating synthetic high-frequency market data that are
realistic. Specifically, most existing agent-based financial markets are of lower frequency such as daily or weekly. To
explore market dynamics that involve high-frequency trading, a higher simulation frequency is needed. In addition,
instead of using full exchange protocols, many simulators make assumptions about the price formation process and use
mathematical formulas to approximate the matching engine. This significantly undermines the realism of the simulator.
Last but not the least, the proper calibration and validation of agent-based financial market simulation are still an open
problem.


To sum up, there are two **challenges** that this paper aims to address:


    - C1: To design and implement a high-frequency agent-based financial market simulator with full exchange
protocols, and with proper calibration and validation process to reproduce a realistic artificial financial market.


    - C2: Under the proposed agent-based financial market simulator, investigate the market dynamics during flash
crashes (including both large flash crashes and mini flash crashes) and explore the conditions that influence the
characteristics of flash crashes.


Motivated by the above challenges, we developed a novel high-frequency financial market simulator to narrow the
existing gaps. The simulator is then employed to explore the dynamics during flash crashes and the conditions that
affect flash crashes. Broadly speaking, our **contributions** in this paper are three-fold:


    - A high-frequency agent-based financial market simulator is implemented, with each simulation step corresponding to 100 milliseconds. Full exchange protocols (limit order books) are implemented to simulate the
order matching process. In this way, we provide a microstructure model of a single security traded on a central
limit order book in which market participants follow fixed behavioural rules. The model is calibrated using the
machine learning surrogate modelling approach. As for model validation, statistical test and moment coverage
ratio results show that the simulation is capable of reproducing realistic stylised facts in financial markets.


    - Under the framework of the proposed high-frequency agent-based financial market simulator, the 2010 Flash
Crash is realistically simulated by introducing an institutional trader that mimics the real-world Sell Algorithm
on May 6th, 2010. We investigate the market dynamics during the simulated flash crash and show that the
simulated dynamics are consistent with what happened in historical flash crash scenarios. We then explore the
conditions that could have influenced the characteristics of the 2010 Flash Crash. According to our Monte
Carlo simulation, three conditions significantly affect the amplitude of the 2010 Flash Crash: the percentage of
volume (POV) of the Sell Algorithm, market maker inventory limit, and the trading frequency of fundamental
traders. In particular, we found that the relationship between the amplitude of the simulated 2010 Flash Crash
and the POV of the Sell Algorithm is not monotonous, and so is the relationship between the amplitude and
the market maker inventory limit. For the trading frequency of fundamental traders, the higher the frequency,
the smaller the amplitude of the simulated 2010 Flash Crash.


    - Similar analysis is carried out for mini flash crash events. An innovative type of trader called "Spiking Trader"
is introduced to the agent-based financial market simulator, creating more price shock and precipitating more
mini flash crash events. Market dynamics for a typical simulated mini flash crash event are analysed. We also
explore the conditions that could influence the characteristics of mini flash crash events. Experimental results
show that the market maker inventory limit significantly affects both the frequency and amplitude of mini flash
crash events. However, the trading frequency of fundamental traders shows no obvious influence on mini flash
crash events in our experiments.


The **novelty** of our approach lies in several features. Firstly, the proposed agent-based financial market simulator
has a higher frequency than most other simulators in the literature. Our simulation step is at milliseconds level, which
allows for the investigation of high-frequency dynamics in the simulated financial market, while most simulation
models in literature adopt larger simulation steps of 1 second or 1 minute. Secondly, we explore the influence of
different market configurations on the amplitude of the 2010 Flash Crash. To the best of our knowledge, there are few
similar experiments in the existing literature. Thirdly, an innovative type of trader named "Spiking Trader" is proposed
to precipitate more mini flash crash events. Fourthly, the experiments that explore the conditions that influence the
frequency and amplitude of mini flash crash events are also a novelty of this work.


The remainder of the article is organized as follows. Section 2 presents general background on the agent-based
financial market simulation and an overview of previous research about flash crash events. Section 3 shows the structure
and details for the proposed agent-based model, while Section 4 presents the model calibration process and model
validation results. Section 5 and Section 6 provide simulation and analysis for the 2010 Flash Crash scenario and mini


3


AUGUST 30, 2022


flash crash scenarios, respectively, in the framework of the proposed agent-based financial market simulation. Section 7
concludes and gives directions for future work.


**2** **Background and Related Work**


**2.1** **Agent-based Financial Market simulation**


An agent-based model (ABM) is a computational simulation driven by the individual decisions of programmed agents
(Todd et al. 2016). ABMs are often used in simulating financial markets. In agent-based simulated financial markets, an
agent’s objective is to "digest the large amounts of time series information generated during a market simulation, and
convert this into trading decisions" (LeBaron 2001). With the advantage of capturing the heterogeneity of agents and
diversity of the underlying economic system, ABMs provide a promising alternative to traditional equilibrium-based
economic models.


Gode and Sunder (1993) build an agent-based model with only zero-intelligence traders to simulate financial markets.
Those zero-intelligence traders are not able to think strategically, or do any advanced learning, or statistical modelling of
the financial market. Surprisingly, results show that zero-intelligence traders can trade very effectively in the simulated
market. The prices tend to converge to the standard equilibrium price and market efficiency tends to reach a very
high level. According to their experimental results, they argue that some stylised facts in financial markets may rely
more on institutional design rather than actual agent behaviour. Agent-based models are also proposed to model the
"Trend" and "Value" effects in financial markets. Chiarella designed an agent-based model composed of two types
of traders: fundamentalists and chartists (Chiarella 1992). With only two types of traders, lots of dynamic regimes
that are compatible with empirical evidence can be generated in the simulated artificial financial market. An extension
of the Chiarella model is proposed in Majewski et al. (2020). The extended model adds a new type of trader called
noise trader and allows the fundamental asset value to have a long term drift. The extended Chiarella model is capable
of reproducing more realistic price dynamics. This extended Chiarella model in Majewski et al. (2020) forms the
basis of the proposed agent-based financial market simulation in this paper. A more complex agent-based model for
financial market simulation is proposed in McGroarty et al. (2019). Five different types of traders are present in the
simulated market: market makers, liquidity consumers, momentum traders, mean reversion traders, and noise traders.
Their model is capable of replicating most of the existing stylised facts of limit order books, such as autocorrelation of
returns, volatility clustering, concave price impact, long memory in order flow, and the presence of extreme price events.
Those stylised facts have been observed across different asset classes and exchanges in real financial markets. The
successful replication of these stylised facts indicates the validity of their agent-based simulation model. It is shown
that agent-based financial market simulation is capable of generating artificial financial markets with realistic macro
behaviours.


The prevalence of electronic order books and automated trading permanently change the way the market works. It
is virtually impossible to infer meaningful relationships between market participants using traditional mathematical
methods because of the complexity of electronic financial markets. Instead, agent-based financial market simulation has
been gradually getting popularity in the market microstructure literature. An agent-based simulated financial market
offers an experimental environment for examining market features and characteristics. It also provides plenty of artificial
financial market data for analysis. Hayes et al. (2014) develop an agent-based model for use by researchers, which offers
the capability of capturing the organization of exchanges, the heterogeneity of market participants, and the intricacies of
the trading process. Agent-based models can also provide regulators with an experimental environment that helps to
comprehend complex system outcomes. In other words, it allows for a clearer examination of the relationship between
micro-level behaviour and macro outcomes. For example, Darley and Outkin (2007) test the regulatory changes that
came with decimalization in the NASDAQ market using agent-based financial market simulation. The agent-based
models of the NASDAQ market shed light on how these changes would impact market function.


To summarise, agent-based financial market simulation simplifies complex financial system simulation by including
a set of individual agents, a topology and an environment. Different agent-based models in the literature focus on
different practical problems in financial markets. In this paper, we focus on agent-based models applied to flash crash
analysis. In the following section, we provide a literature review of flash crash episodes.


**2.2** **Flash Crash Episodes**


During the 2010 Flash Crash, over a trillion dollars were wiped off the value of US equity markets in an event that
has been largely attributed to the rapid rise of algorithmic trading and high-frequency trading Kirilenko et al. (2017).
The base indices in both the futures and securities market experienced a rapid price fall of more than 5% in just several
minutes, after which the bulk of the price drop was recovered nearly as fast as it fell. The staff from CFTC and SEC


4


AUGUST 30, 2022


present a thorough report on what happened during the 2010 Flash Crash event (SEC and CFTC 2010). They identified
an automated execution algorithm that sold a large number of contracts as the main catalyst for the flash crash. The Sell
Algorithm, which was activated on the E-mini S&P 500 futures market, kept pace with the market aiming at selling
around 9% of the previous minute’s trading volume (SEC and CFTC 2010). Even though no negative impact was
known previously, this process triggered a cascade of panic selling by market participants that employ high-speed
automated trading systems. The consequent "hot-potato" effect, where those market participants rapidly acquired and
then liquidated positions among themselves, resulted in rapid and extreme price decline.


Flash crash episodes have attracted attention after the 2010 Flash Crash event. Several months after the crash, the
staff from regulatory authorities released a report that highlighted the important role of a large seller in initiating the
flash crash event (SEC and CFTC 2010). It is reported that although high-frequency traders appear to have exacerbated
the magnitude of the crash, they do not actually trigger the flash crash. Though high-frequency traders played a role
in creating the so-called "hot-potato" effect, the flash crash would very likely have been avoided without the overly
simplistic sell algorithm based on volume alone. There is also a lot of academic research on flash crash episodes. For
example, Kirilenko et al. (2017) applied purely empirical approaches to understanding the causes of the 2010 Flash
Crash. They use regression analysis on a unique dataset that is labelled with the identities of all market participants. It
is demonstrated that in responding to the activity of the Sell Algorithm, high-frequency traders caused the "hot-potato"
effect that exacerbated the price drop. This is consistent with the SEC and CFTC (2010) report. Paddrik et al. (2012)
develop an agent-based model of the E-mini S&P futures applied to flash crash analysis. A general flash crash in
price is replicated in their model. However, they only reproduce a rough shape of the flash crash price behaviour, and
detailed analyses of trader behaviours and market depth are absent. Karvik et al. (2018) developed an agent-based
model to analyse the flash crash episodes in the sterling-dollar forex market. They emphasize the important role of
high-frequency traders in the emergence of flash crash episodes. The proposed approach in this paper is partly inspired
by their work. Paddrik et al. (2017) explore how the levels of information can be used to predict the occurrence of flash
crash events. Their findings suggest that some stability indicators derived from limit order book information are capable
of signalling a high likelihood of an imminent flash crash event.


There are also different angles of view for flash crash episodes in literature. Paulin et al. (2019) design and implement
a hybrid microscopic and macroscopic agent-based approach to investigate the conditions that give rise to the "electronic
contagion" [3] of flash crash events. Their results demonstrate that the flash crash contagion between different assets is
dependent on portfolio diversification, behaviours of algorithmic traders, and network topology. It is also stressed that
regulatory interventions are important during the propagation of flash crash distress. Menkveld and Yueshen (2019)
look at the flash crash event from the perspective of cross-arbitrage. They find that the breakdown of cross-arbitrage
activities between related markets plays an important role in exacerbating the flash crash event. Kyle and Obižaeva
(2020) analyse price impact during flash crash events in their market microstructure invariance model. It is shown that
the actual price declines in flash crash events are larger than the predicted price impact. Madhavan (2012) argues that
the flash crash episodes are linked directly to the current market structure, mostly the pattern of volume and market
fragmentation. He further suggests that a lack of liquidity is the critical issue that requires the greatest policy attention
to prevent future flash crash events. Similarly, Borkovec et al. (2010) explicitly owe the flash crash in ETFs to an
extreme deterioration in liquidity. Their results are consistent with the liquidity provision behaviour in financial markets.
Golub et al. (2012) analyse mini flash crashes, which are the scaled-down versions of the 2010 Flash Crash. It is
shown that mini flash crashes also have an adverse impact on market liquidity and are associated with fleeting liquidity
phenomenon.


The above provides various analyses for the occurrence of flash crash episodes. However, despite extensive work
on analysing the flash crash episodes, the exact causes of the flash crash episodes are still not clear. In this paper, we
investigate and analyse the flash crash episodes through the lens of agent-based financial market simulation. In this
sense, our work is similar to the work in Karvik et al. (2018) and Paddrik et al. (2012). Nevertheless, we offer a much
more extensive and detailed analysis of the simulated flash crash event which, to the best of our knowledge, is the
most fine-grained analysis in current literature. Specifically, we realistically simulate the 2010 Flash Crash event in
our simulation, and divide the simulated flash crash event to several phases. For each phase, detailed analyses about
traders behaviours and market dynamics are presented. To the best of our knowledge, this fine-grained simulation and
analysis is not reported before in literature. By dividing the whole flash crash event into different phases and examine
trader behaviours and market dynamics for each phase, we shed light on the cause for flash crash events. In addition,
controlled experiments under different model settings and trader behaviours are carried out in the developed agent-based
simulation framework, which provide insights about how to prevent the happening of detrimental flash crash events. The
basis of our agent-based model is the extended Chiarella model in Majewski et al. (2020), which comprises fundamental
traders, momentum traders, and noise traders. We further divide momentum traders into long-term momentum traders


3Electronic contagion refers to the contagion phenomenon in financial markets that results from interactions between trading
algorithms, instead of human traders.


5


AUGUST 30, 2022


and short-term momentum traders, and introduce market makers to the model. The motivation for introducing these
types of traders and their interactions will be presented in section 3.1. It is shown that the proposed model is capable of
generating realistic artificial financial time series. Within the framework of the proposed realistic agent-based financial
market simulation, special types of agents are introduced to trigger flash crash episodes in the simulated financial
market. In this way, simulated flash crash episodes are scrutinized and analysed.


**3** **Model Structure**


This section presents the set-up and components of the proposed agent-based high-frequency financial market
simulator.


**3.1** **Model Set-up**


We denote the price of a stock at time _t_ as _Pt_ . The price in this work refers to mid-price, which is the mean value of
the best bid price and the best ask price at time _t_ :

_Pt_ := 0 _._ 5 _∗_ _b_ [0] _t_ [+ 0] _[.]_ [5] _[ ∗]_ _[a]_ _t_ [0]

where _b_ [0] _t_ [and] _[ a]_ _t_ [0] [denote best bid and best ask price at time] _[ t]_ [, respectively. The price dynamics are exactly the same as]
the price dynamics in real stock exchanges - a limit order book is built to accept all orders and trades are generated
by the match engine. All the orders submitted by various traders in one simulation period, including limit orders and
market orders, constitute the aggregated virtual "demand" and "supply" in that period. The aggregated virtual "demand"
and "supply" depend on the trading strategies of various types of market participants. The market participants are
assumed to be heterogeneous in their trading decisions. According to the Extended Chiarella model (Majewski et al.
2020), a popular set of traders in an artificial financial market includes momentum traders, fundamental traders, and
noise traders. This composition of traders is capable of capturing the trend and value effects in financial markets. We
further extend the model by dividing momentum traders into two groups: short-term momentum traders and long-term
momentum traders. In this way, heterogeneity is introduced not only between groups of traders, but also inside a
specific group of traders. In addition, in an artificial financial market with full exchange protocols, market maker is an
indispensable component to create realistic limit order book behaviours. To sum up, five types of traders are included
in our model: fundamental traders, short-term momentum traders, long-term momentum traders, noise traders, and
market makers. Each type of trader is associated with several parameters which control the trading behaviours. Trading
heuristics, specific parameters and the parameter calibration process will be presented in subsequent sections.


**3.2** **Common Trader Behaviours**


Traders in our simulation model have some behaviours in common, for example submitting and cancelling orders.
We can assume that there is a certain type of agent called "Base Agent", and all traders in our model inherit the
functionalities of this base agent. Specifically, all traders in the model have common behaviours as follows.


    - Each trader has a parameter _θ_, which controls the probability of submitting a limit order. The value of _θ_
depends on the type of traders and also varies during simulation, but the behaviour given a _θ_ value is common
for all types of traders. That is, for each simulation step, if _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) [4] _< θ_, the trader will place an limit
order, otherwise no action is taken. Note that the specific side of the order (buy or sell) depends on the trader
type and market conditions. The value of _θ_ could be zero for some traders, which means that the corresponding
traders do not submit limit orders.

   - Each trader has a parameter _µ_ . The function of _µ_ is identical to parameter _θ_, except that _µ_ controls the
probability of sending a market order. Similar to _θ_, the value of _µ_ is different for different types of traders and
varies for different timestamps. For each simulation step, if _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< µ_, the trader will place a market
order, otherwise no action is taken. The specific side of the market order also depends on the trader type and
market conditions. Similar to _θ_, the value of _µ_ can also be zero for some particular type of traders.

    - The side for all limit orders and market orders are determined by corresponding trader types and market
conditions. A market order is submitted directly to the exchange after the side is determined. For a limit
order, the price information is required. Given the order side, a buy limit order will have a price lower than the
market mid-price at the corresponding timestamp, while a sell limit order will have a price higher than the
market mid-price. The distance between the limit order price and the market mid-price follows a particular
distribution, whose type is determined by the trader types. Specifically, the price distance for limit orders from


4 _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) returns a value that follows uniform distribution between 0 and 1.


6


AUGUST 30, 2022


market makers is sampled from a uniform distribution with parameters 0 and _p_ _[MM]_ _edge_ [, and the price distance for]
limit orders from other types of traders is sampled from a common log-normal distribution with parameters _µℓ_
and Σ _ℓ_ . The parameters of these distributions are calibrated to historical price time series stylised facts. The
price for a limit order is calculated after the price distance is sampled from the corresponding distribution.


    - Each type of trader has a parameter _δ_ . Regardless of the order price and side, each limit order has a cancellation
probability of _δ_ at each simulation step. The value of _δ_ is dependent on the type of trader who places the order,
and is calibrated using historical market data to create realistic limit order book behaviours. In the presented
model, all traders share the same value for _δ_ except market makers, who have a higher value of _δ_ . This reflects
the fact that orders submitted by market makers tend to have a much higher cancellation / replacement rate.


    - In the proposed model, short-term momentum traders, long-term momentum traders and noise traders all have
a parameter called _ρ_, which controls the ratio between the number of market orders and limit orders placed
by the same trader. That is, for each trader of these three types, there is a fixed relationship between _θ_ and _µ_ :
_µ_ = _θ ∗_ _ρ_ . This relationship enables a realistic ratio between the number of market orders and limit orders in
the simulated financial market and the value of _ρ_ is selected according to historical orders data.


   - The volume _V_ for each order is 100, regardless of limit order or market order.


Despite the common trader behaviours, each type of trader follows different trading heuristics and has different
values for the associated parameters. For example, fundamental traders only submit market orders. Market makers
submit limit orders in normal trading time. Only after the inventory limit is hit will market makers submit market orders
to reduce their inventory risk. The remaining types of traders submit both limit orders and market orders during trading
hours, aiming to maintain a fixed ratio between the number of limit orders and the number of market orders. The
remainder of the section describes the trading behaviour heuristics for each type of trader in more detail. Descriptions
for all the parameters involved in the proposed model are summarised in Appendix A.


**3.3** **Fundamental Trader (FT)**


Fundamental traders make their trading decisions based on the perceived fundamental value of the stock. The
fundamental value is denoted as _Vt_ . A fundamentalist tends to buy a stock if the stock is under-priced( _Vt −_ _Pt >_ 0),
otherwise he will sell the stock. Following the convention in Majewski et al. (2020), in this work we assume the
aggregated demand of fundamental traders is polynomial to the level of mispricing. Specifically, the aggregated demand
of fundamentalists is:


_DF T_ = _κ_ 1( _Vt −_ _Pt_ ) + _κ_ 2( _Vt −_ _Pt_ ) [3] (1)


where _κ_ 1 and _κ_ 2 controls the overall demand generated by fundamental traders. Since we have _NF T_ fundamental
traders, each fundamental trader will contribute _[κ]_ [1] _[|][V][t][−][P][t]_ _N_ _[|]_ [+] _F T_ _[κ]_ [2] _[|][V][t][−][P][t][|]_ [3] to the aggregated demand. Since the fundamental

traders only submit market orders, the value of _θ_ for each fundamental trader is set to 0, while the value of _µ_ for each
fundamental trader is set to _[κ]_ [1] _[|][V][t][−][P][t]_ _N_ _[|]_ [+] _F T_ _[κ]_ [2] _[|][V][t][−][P][t][|]_ [3] . The fundamental value _Vt_ is an exogenous signal that is input to the

model. Each fundamental trader is also associated with a parameter _Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [. A fundamental trader only attempts to]
submit a market order once in every _Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [simulation steps. A detailed description of the fundamental trader’s logic]
is given in Algorithm 1.


**Algorithm 1** Fundamental Trader Logic


1: **for each** simulation step **do**
2: _θ ←_ 0
3: _µ ←_ _[κ]_ [1] _[|][V][t][−][P][t]_ _N_ _[|]_ [+] _F T_ _[κ]_ [2] _[|][V][t][−][P][t][|]_ [3]

4: **if** ( _simulation_ _ _steps_ mod _Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [== 0][) and (] _[p][ ∈]_ _[U]_ [(0] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ < µ]_ [)] **[ then]**
5: **if** _Vt −_ _Pt >_ 0 **then** Place a buy market order
6: **else if** _Vt −_ _Pt <_ 0 **then** Place a sell market order
7: **end if**
8: **else** No market order submitted
9: **end if**
10: **end for**


7


AUGUST 30, 2022


**3.4** **Momentum Trader (MT)**


Momentum traders are also called "Chartists". This group of traders buy and sell financial assets after being
influenced by recent price trends. The assumption is to take advantage of an upward or downward trend in the stock
prices until the trend starts to fade. Instead of looking at the fundamental value of the stock, momentum traders
focus more on recent price action and price movement. If the stock price has been recently rising, a long position is
established; otherwise, momentum traders will enter a short position. In the proposed model, momentum traders can
submit both limit orders and market orders. For momentum traders, the ratio between the number of limit orders and
market orders is fixed, which is denoted as _ρ_ .


There are lots of methods to estimate the momentum of stock prices. A common trend signal is the exponentially
weighted moving average of past returns with decay rate _α_ . This trend signal is denoted by _Mt_ :


_Mt_ = (1 _−_ _α_ ) _Mt−_ 1 + _α_ ( _pt −_ _pt−_ 1) (2)


where _α_ is the decay rate. Given the trend signal _Mt_, the demand function of momentum traders is denoted as _f_ ( _Mt_ ).
The demand function _f_ ( _Mt_ ) must satisfy two conditions:


    - _f_ ( _Mt_ ) is increasing.

    - _f_ _[′′]_ ( _Mt_ ) _∗_ _Mt <_ 0


where the first condition is consistent with the nature of momentum trading and the second condition imposes the
risk-averse assumption to momentum traders. Consistent with Majewski et al. (2020), here we choose _f_ ( _Mt_ ) =
_β_ tanh( _γMt_ ) with the requirement that _γ >_ 0. _γ_ represents the saturation of momentum traders’ demand when
momentum signals are very large. This phenomenon is partly due to for example budget constraints and risk aversion,
which are prevalent in real momentum traders. _β_ controls the overall demand generated by momentum traders. _β_ is also
assumed to be positive, i.e. the demand of momentum traders is positive when the momentum signal ( _Mt_ ) is positive,
otherwise the demand is negative. The choice of this demand function for momentum traders strictly satisfies the two
requirements.


According to the value of _α_, we further divide the group of momentum traders into two sub-groups: long-term
momentum traders (small _α_ ) and short-term momentum traders (large _α_ ). The two types of momentum traders also
have different values for _β_ ; however, they share the same _γ_ value. The proposed model includes _NLMT_ long-term
momentum traders and _NSMT_ short-term momentum traders.


**3.4.1** **Long-term Momentum Trader (LMT)**


Long-term momentum traders are associated with a small value for _α_ . According to equation 2, a small _α_ corresponds
to slow changes in the momentum signal. Consequently, the momentum signal is smooth and reflects the trend on a
longer time scale. In our intra-day simulation, we choose an _α_ value of 0.01 for long-term momentum traders. This
would approximately correspond to an intra-day hourly trend. The group of long-term momentum traders will focus on
the relatively long-time price trend and calculate their demand function. For limit orders, the virtual aggregated demand
from long-term momentum traders is _βL_ tanh( _γMt_ _[L]_ [)][, while for market orders the virtual aggregated demand from]
long-term momentum traders is _ρβL_ tanh( _γMt_ _[L]_ [)][. As there are] _[ N][LMT]_ [long-term momentum traders, the] _[ θ]_ [ and] _[ µ]_ [ for]
each trader are corresponding quantities divided by _NLMT_ . Trading decisions are made according to the common order
submission rules. A full description of long-term momentum traders’ logic is shown in Algorithm 2.


**3.4.2** **Short-term Momentum Trader (SMT)**


Compared to the long-term momentum traders, short-term momentum traders are associated with a much larger
_α_ . Typically, _α_ for short-term momentum trader would be a value close to 1. Following equation 2, the momentum
signal is updated very fast when _α_ has a large value. In this circumstance, _Mt_ represents the trend in an extremely short
time scale, typical only several ticks in our intra-day simulation. The group of short-term momentum traders aim at
exploiting the price trend in a very short time scale, which mimics the behaviour of some real-world high-frequency
traders. In our agent-based financial market simulation, we assign a value of 0.9 to _α_ of short-term momentum traders. [5]
The trading heuristics for short-term momentum traders are exactly the same as that for long-term momentum traders,
except that _αL_ and _βL_ are replaced by _αS_ and _βS_, respectively. A full description of short-term momentum traders’
logic is shown in Algorithm 3.


5We also run simulation experiments with _α_ having value 0.95 and 0.99. Similar experimental results are obtained in these
settings, showing that minor changes in _α_ value will not significantly affect the results.


8


AUGUST 30, 2022



**Algorithm 2** Long-term Momentum Trader Logic


1: **for each** simulation step **do**
2: **for each** outstanding limit orders submitted by this trader **do**
3: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< δ_ **then** Cancel this limit order
4: **end if**
5: **end for**
6: _Mt_ = (1 _−_ _αL_ ) _Mt−_ 1 + _αL_ ( _pt −_ _pt−_ 1)

7: _θ ←_ _[β][L]_ [ tanh(] _NLMT_ _[γM][t]_ [)]

8: _µ ←_ _θ ∗_ _ρ_
9: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< θ_ **then**
10: **if** _Mt >_ 0 **then** Place a buy limit order
11: **else if** _Mt <_ 0 **then** Place a sell limit order
12: **end if**
13: **else** No limit order submitted
14: **end if**
15: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< µ_ **then**
16: **if** _Mt >_ 0 **then** Place a buy market order
17: **else if** _Mt <_ 0 **then** Place a sell market order
18: **end if**
19: **else** No market order submitted
20: **end if**
21: **end for**


**Algorithm 3** Short-term Momentum Trader Logic


1: **for each** simulation step **do**
2: **for each** outstanding limit orders submitted by this trader **do**
3: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< δ_ **then** Cancel this limit order
4: **end if**
5: **end for**
6: _Mt_ = (1 _−_ _αS_ ) _Mt−_ 1 + _αS_ ( _pt −_ _pt−_ 1)

7: _θ ←_ _[β][S]_ [ tanh(] _Nsmt_ _[γM][t]_ [)]

8: _µ ←_ _θ ∗_ _ρ_
9: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< θ_ **then**
10: **if** _Mt >_ 0 **then** Place a buy limit order
11: **else if** _Mt <_ 0 **then** Place a sell limit order
12: **end if**
13: **else** No limit order submitted
14: **end if**
15: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< µ_ **then**
16: **if** _Mt >_ 0 **then** Place a buy market order
17: **else if** _Mt <_ 0 **then** Place a sell market order
18: **end if**
19: **else** No market order submitted
20: **end if**
21: **end for**


9


AUGUST 30, 2022


**Algorithm 4** Noise Trader Logic

1: _θ ←_ _N_ _[σ][NT]_ _NT_

2: _µ ←_ _θ ∗_ _ρ_
3: **for each** simulation step **do**
4: **for each** outstanding limit orders submitted by this trader **do**
5: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< δ_ **then** Cancel this limit order
6: **end if**
7: **end for**
8: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< θ_ **then**
9: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _<_ 0 _._ 5 **then** Place a buy limit order
10: **else if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _>_ 0 _._ 5 **then** Place a sell limit order
11: **end if**
12: **else** No limit order submitted
13: **end if**
14: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< µ_ **then**
15: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _<_ 0 _._ 5 **then** Place a buy market order
16: **else if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _>_ 0 _._ 5 **then** Place a sell market order
17: **end if**
18: **else** No market order submitted
19: **end if**
20: **end for**


**3.5** **Noise Trader (NT)**


Another group of market participants are noise traders. They are designed so as to capture other market activities that
are not reflected by trend-following and value investing. As a result, the cumulative demand of noise traders can be
described by a random walk, with each step having an equal probability of placing buy/sell orders. Parameter _σNT_
controls the aggregated demand level from noise traders. There are _NNT_ noise traders in the model, with each noise
trader having value _N_ _[σ][NT]_ _NT_ [for] _[ θ]_ [. Similar to momentum traders, noise traders are also associated with a parameter] _[ ρ]_ [,]

which controls the ratio between the number of limit and market orders. Note that unlike other traders whose _θ_ and _µ_
vary according to simulated market conditions, _θ_ and _µ_ for noise traders are determined prior to simulation and remain
fixed during the simulation process. Algorithm 4 gives a description of noise traders’ logic in the simulated financial
market.


**3.6** **Market Maker (MM)**


The market makers are another group of traders in the model. The introduction of market makers in the proposed
model is aimed at creating realistic limit order book dynamics. Market makers in the proposed model are more complex
than previous traders. During normal trading time, market makers only submit quotes to the market. A quote includes
one buy limit order and one sell limit order. The simplification that market makers only submit limit orders is motivated
by Menkveld (2013), which finds that around 80% of market makers’ orders are passive. The price of the sell (buy)
order is calculated by adding (subtracting) a distance from the mid-price at the corresponding timestamp, where the
distance is sampled from a uniform distribution. (The price is rounded to the closest multiple of tick size before being
submitted to the exchange.) In alignment with the market making behaviours during the 2010 Flash Crash event (SEC
and CFTC 2010), market makers in the proposed model are associated with a position limit. Specifically, once the
inventory of a market maker reaches the position limit, the market maker will stop all active quoting and actively submit
market orders to reduce the inventory level. This will continue until the inventory reduces to a certain safe level, which
is also a parameter of the model. At this stage, the market maker suspends trading for a certain time period. This
resembles the real-world scenarios that market makers tend to suspend trading to check their own trading systems and
observe market conditions after some unusual scenarios happen. After this time period, the market maker will restart
the normal trading heuristics. Table 1 presents the corresponding order types that market makers will submit in different
trading conditions.


**Table 1** Order types submitted by market makers under different trading conditions

|Trading condition|Normal trading|Stressed trading (after<br>inventory limit reached)|Trading suspension|
|---|---|---|---|
|Order type|Limit order|Market order|None|



10


AUGUST 30, 2022


Since market makers only submit limit orders during the normal trading time, the _µ_ for each market maker is set to 0.
Similar to the case in previous traders, _δ_ and _θ_ control the probability of order cancellation and limit order submission
respectively, whose values are calibrated to historical price time series. Note that one difference is that _θ_ controls the
probability of submitting a quote (buy and sell limit orders) for market makers. In addition to _δ_, _θ_ and _µ_, market makers
are associated with several extra parameters that correspond to the trading behaviours presented above. The trading edge
of market makers is sampled from a uniform distribution, which controls the spread of the quotes submitted by market
makers. Specifically, the uniform distribution from which the price distance is sampled has a minimum value of 0 and
a maximum value of _p_ _[MM]_ _edge_ [.] _[ ε][MM]_ _limit_ [represents the position limit for each market maker, while] _[ ε]_ _safe_ _[MM]_ [denotes the safe]
position level. That is, market makers will actively reduce inventory once _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [is reached, until the position is reduced]
to _ε_ _[MM]_ _safe_ [level.] _[ ε]_ _rest_ _[MM]_ [represent the time length for the trading suspension. Algorithm 5 presents a full description of]
market makers’ trading heuristics in the proposed model.


**Algorithm 5** Market Maker Logic


1: Before simulation starts:
2: _θ ←_ _θMM_
3: _µ ←_ 0
4: _δ ←_ _δMM_
5: _Flag ←_ 0
6: _Restart_ _ _step ←_ 0
7:
8: **for each** simulation step **do**
9: Get current simulation step _current_ _ _step_
10: **if** _|position| >_ = _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ **[then]**
11: _Flag ←_ 1
12: _Restart_ _ _step_ = _Current_ _ _step_ + _ε_ _[MM]_ _rest_
13: **end if**
14:
15: **if** ( _Flag_ == 1) _∧_ ( _|position| <_ = _ε_ _[MM]_ _safe_ [)] **[ then]** _[ Flag][ ←]_ [0]
16: **end if**
17:
18: **if** _Flag_ == 1 **then**
19: Cancel all active limit orders
20: **if** |position| < 0 **then**
21: Submit a buy market order
22: **else**
23: Submit a sell market order
24: **end if**
25:
26: **else if** _Current_ _ _step > Restart_ _ _step_ **then**
27: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< δ_ **then**
28: Cancel existing quotes by this market maker
29: **end if**
30:
31: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< θ_ **then**
32: Submit a quote(one limit buy order and one limit sell order, with sampled trading edge.)
33: **else**
34: No limit order submitted
35: **end if**
36:
37: **end if**
38: **end for**


**3.7** **Simulation Dynamics**


The above are the five types of agents included in the proposed model. A fully functioning limit order book
was implemented, as is the case in most electronic financial markets. The simulation is run in pseudo-continuous
time. Specifically, each simulation step represents 100 milliseconds of trading time. Each trading day is divided


11


AUGUST 30, 2022


into _T_ = 324 _,_ 000 steps, corresponding to 9 hours of trading (8:00 to 17:00). The minimum time for execution of
transactions is 100 milliseconds, showing that the simulated financial market represents a high-frequency trading
environment. We remind here that the fundamental value _Vt_, which is extracted from the historical price time series, is
an exogenous signal that is input to the model.


The whole simulation runs as follows. For each step, each trader collects and processes market information. Internal
variables associated with each trader are calculated. According to agent type and values of internal variables, actions are
taken by the traders. These actions include limit order submission, market order submission, and order cancellation. The
programmed matching engine matches these orders and updates the state of the limit order book. Finally, transactions
and limit order book status are published to all traders. The whole simulation procedure is shown in Algorithm 6.


**Algorithm 6** Simulation Procedure


1: Simulation Parameter Initialization
2: **while** timestamp < market close **do**
3: timestamp += ∆ _t_
4:
5: **for each** trader **do**
6: Collect latest market information and update internal states
7: **if** fundamental trader **then**
8: Fundamental trader logic(Algorithm 1)
9: **end if**
10: **if** long-term momentum trader **then**
11: Long-term momentum trader logic(Algorithm 2)
12: **end if**
13: **if** short-term momentum trader **then**
14: Short-term momentum trader logic(Algorithm 3)
15: **end if**
16: **if** noise trader **then**
17: Noise trader logic(Algorithm 4)
18: **end if**
19: **if** market maker **then**
20: Market maker logic(Algorithm 5)
21: **end if**
22: **end for**
23:
24: **for each** limit order, market order, or order cancellation) **do**
25: Update limit order book and publish transactions
26: **end for**
27:
28: Publish latest limit order book status
29: **end while**


We suggest that the proposed five types of traders reflect a sufficiently realistic and diverse market environment.
According to O’Hara (1995), there are three major market-microstructure trader types: uninformed traders, informed
traders and market makers. The noise traders in our model correspond to uninformed traders, while market makers
in the proposed model obviously correspond to the market makers in literature. The remaining three types of traders
represent informed traders in our model. Specifically, fundamental traders utilise exogenous information implied by the
fundamental value, while the two types of momentum traders exploit the endogenous technical indicator information.
In addition, among the informed traders some perceived trading opportunities are based only on an analysis of shorthorizon returns, while others focus on market information revealed by long-term return horizons. This is reflected by
the division of momentum traders into long-term and short-term momentum traders. Overall, a sea of different informed
and uninformed traders in the proposed model compete with each other, with market makers providing liquidity and
ensuring realistic limit order book behaviours. In conclusion, the proposed model with five types of traders represents a
complete range of micro-behaviours of real financial markets.


**3.7.1** **Fundamental Value from Kalman Smoother**


The only remaining unknown variable is the fundamental value of the stock. The simulation can proceed only if
the fundamental value is known and is exogenously input to the model. One difficulty is the non-observability of the


12


AUGUST 30, 2022


fundamental value. According to the economic literature, the fundamental value of a stock equals the expected value of
discounted dividends that the company will pay to the shareholders in the future. However, this methodology requires
extremely strong assumptions about the future dynamics of the stock dividends. Furthermore, this approach can never
reflect the intra-day change of fundamental value, while the consensus fundamental value can indeed vary during the
trading day due to the continuous feed of events and news.


In this paper, we propose a new method which is to apply Kalman Smoother (Ralaivola and d’Alche Buc 2005)
directly to the stock price time series to get the hidden fundamental value. In accordance with Majewski et al. (2020),
we assume the fundamental value _Vt_ is a hidden variable of a linear dynamical system. The observations are the actual
prices traded in real markets. The specific Kalman Smoothing algorithm used here can be found in Byron et al. (2004).
The algorithm is applied to the price time series for each trading day to extract the corresponding fundamental value
time series for that day. [6]


**4** **Model Calibration and Validation**


In this section we present the methodology for calibrating the agent-based financial market. Calibration means
finding an optimal set of model parameters to make the model generate the most realistic simulated financial market.
Firstly we describe the real data and the associated stylised facts in financial markets. Next we define the distance
between historical and simulated stylised facts, which acts as the loss function in the calibration process. The parameters
calibration workflow is presented, followed by detailed validation of the proposed high-frequency financial market
simulator.


**4.1** **Calibration Target: Data and Stylised Facts for Realistic Simulation**


In the model calibration process, real financial market data is essential for setting up the calibration target. We
collected high-frequency limit order book data of E-mini S&P 500 futures, from May 3rd, 2010 to May 6th, 2010 [7] .
We select the most liquid contract as the calibration target, which is the contract expires in June 2010. Our dataset
comprises high-frequency information for 10 levels of limit order book update, both the buy side and sell side.


Financial price time series data display some interesting statistical characteristics that are commonly called stylised
facts. According to Sewell (2011), stylized facts refer to empirical findings that are so consistent (for example, across
a wide range of financial instruments and different time periods) that they are accepted as truth. A stylized fact is
a simplified presentation of an empirical finding in financial markets. A successful and realistic financial market
simulation is capable of reproducing various stylised facts. These stylised facts include fat-tailed distribution of returns,
autocorrelation of returns, and volatility clustering. The loss function used in the calibration process is constructed by
measuring the distance between historical and simulated stylised facts.


**4.1.1** **Fat-tailed distribution of returns**


The distributions of price returns have been found to be fat-tailed across all timescales. In other words, the return
distributions exhibit positive excess kurtosis. Understanding positively kurtotic return distributions is important for
risk management since large price movements are much more likely to occur than in commonly assumed normal
distributions.


Following the convention in literature, in this paper we investigate the stylised fact of fat-tailed returns by examining
second-level intra-day price returns. Both millisecond-level historical and simulated mid-price time series are resampled
into second-level frequency and we examine the mid-price returns for each second. Specifically, the last price snapshot
is taken as the price for that specific second. Second-level price returns are calculated accordingly. Our experiments
show that different time scales have no significant influence on the final results. The main metric used for evaluating the
fat-tail characteristic is the Hill Estimator of the tail index (Hill 2010). A lower value of the Hill Estimator implies that
the return distribution has a fatter tail.


**4.1.2** **Autocorrelation of returns**


Autocorrelation is defined to be a mathematical representation of the degree of similarity between a time series and a
lagged version of the same time series. It measures the relationship between a variable’s past values and its current
value. Take first-order autocorrelation for example. A positive first-order autocorrelation of returns indicates that a
positive (negative) return in one period is prone to be followed by a positive (negative) return in the subsequent period.


6The algorithm is already implemented in Python package "pykalman".
7Evening trading sessions are excluded. That is, the data span from 8:00 in the morning to 5:00 in the afternoon for each day.


13


AUGUST 30, 2022


Instead, if the first-order autocorrelation of returns is negative, a positive (negative) return will usually be followed
by a negative (positive) return in the next period. It is observed that the returns series lack significant autocorrelation,
except for weak, negative autocorrelation on very short timescales. McGroarty et al. (2019) show that the negative
autocorrelation of returns is significantly stronger at a smaller time horizon and disappears at a longer time horizon.
Examination of our data also reveals this stylised fact. Figure 1 shows the autocorrelation function of second-level
return time series for E-mini S&P 500 futures on two days. We can see that the autocorrelation is significantly negative
for very small lags, and the negative autocorrelation gradually disappears for larger lags.


**Fig. 1** Autocorrelation function of second-level returns for E-mini S&P 500 futures on two days


**4.1.3** **Volatility clustering**


Financial price returns often exhibit the volatility clustering property: large changes in prices tend to be followed
by large changes, while small changes in prices tend to be followed by small changes. This property results in the
persistence of the amplitudes of price changes (Cont 2007). It is found that the volatility clustering property exists on
timescales varying from minutes to days and weeks. Volatility clustering also refers to the long memory of square
price returns (McGroarty et al. 2019). Consequently, volatility clustering can be manifested by the slow decaying
pattern in the autocorrelation of squared returns. Specifically, for short lags the autocorrelation function of squared
returns is significantly positive, and the autocorrelation slowly decays with the lags increasing. Figure 2 shows the
autocorrelation patterns for squared second-level returns for E-mini S&P 500 futures on two days. It is shown that the
volatility clustering stylised fact clearly exists in our collected E-mini S&P 500 futures price dataset.


**Fig. 2** Autocorrelation function of squared second-level returns for E-mini S&P 500 futures on two days


**4.1.4** **Stylised Facts Distance as Loss Function**


The target for agent-based model calibration is to find an optimal set of model parameters to make the model generate
a realistic simulated financial market. To solve this optimization problem, it is essential to have a metric that is able to
quantify the "realism" of a simulated financial market. First of all, a realistic simulated financial market must exhibit
similar characteristics to real financial markets, such as the fat-tailed return distribution and volatility level. In addition,
realistic simulated financial data are also required to reproduce other stylised facts such as the autocorrelation patterns


14


AUGUST 30, 2022


in returns and squared returns. Here we design a stylised facts distance to quantify the similarities between simulated
and historical financial data. Four metrics are considered in the stylised facts distance: Hill Estimator of the tail index
for absolute return distributions, volatility, autocorrelation of returns and autocorrelation of squared returns. For each
metric, the differential quantity between simulated value and historical value is calculated. The stylised facts distance is
then calculated as the weighted sum of the four differential quantities:


_D_ = _w_ 1 _∗_ ∆ _Hill_ + _w_ 2 _∗_ ∆ _V_ + _w_ 3 _∗_ ∆ _ACF_ 1 + _w_ 4 _∗_ ∆ _ACF_ 2 (3)


Detailed calculations of the four quantities in the stylised facts distance are presented below.


The Hill Estimator is famous for inferring the power behaviour in tails of experimental distribution functions.
Following Franke and Westerhoff (2012), we use the Hill Estimator of the tail index to estimate the degree of fat-tail
in the distribution of absolute returns on the mid-price. Note that the absolute return distribution is considered since
there is no need to distinguish between extreme positive and negative returns. In our experiments, the Hill Estimator for
simulated absolute returns and historical absolute returns are calculated, respectively. The absolute difference between
the two Hill Estimators constitutes the first part of the stylised facts distance:


∆ _Hill_ = _|Hills −_ _Hillh|_ (4)


where _Hills_ and _Hillh_ are the Hill Estimator for simulated absolute return distribution and historical absolute return
distribution, respectively. Intuitively, this part of the stylised facts distance quantifies the distance between simulated
and historical return distribution, in terms of the heavy-tailedness. It addresses the requirement that the simulated return
distribution exhibits the fat tail property, as is the case in historical return distribution.


The second part of the stylised facts distance is the absolute volatility difference between simulated returns and
historical returns:
∆ _V_ = _|Vs −_ _Vh|_ (5)


where _Vs_ and _Vh_ denote simulated volatility and historical volatility, respectively. This part addresses the requirement
that a simulated financial market should be similar to real market in terms of volatility.


The third part of the stylised facts distance is the difference between simulated and historical autocorrelations of
returns. This part in the stylised distance measures the model’s ability to reproduce autocorrelation patterns commonly
found in historical returns. It is shown that financial price return time series lack significant autocorrelation, except for
short time scales, where significantly negative autocorrelations exist. This phenomenon is backed by our empirical data.
For very small lags the autocorrelations are negative, while for larger lags the autocorrelations become insignificant. To
measure the distance in autocorrelation patterns between simulated data and historical data, we invoke the autocorrelation
function of returns and calculate the average absolute difference between autocorrelations of simulated return time
series and historical return time series for various lags:







∆ _ACF_ 1 =




 - _|ACFs_ ( _l, r_ ) _−_ _ACFh_ ( _l, r_ ) _|_

_l in lags_



(6)
_|lags|_



where _ACFs_ ( _l, r_ ), _ACFh_ ( _l, r_ ) are the autocorrelation function of lag _l_ for simulated returns and historical returns,
respectively. _|lags|_ denotes the number of lags used in the calculation. Because the empirical autocorrelations are
negative for very small lags and close to zero for larger lags, it is not necessary to consider all of the autocorrelation
coefficients. Empirical evidence suggests that the autocorrelation pattern is well represented by the coefficients for
three lags: 30, 60, and 90. Also, to reduce the effects of accidental outliers, the autocorrelation function is smoothed by
calculating the three-lag average. That is, the lag 30 autocorrelation is calculated as the average autocorrelation of lag
30, 31, 32, and so is the calculation for lag 60 and lag 90. In total, autocorrelations of 9 lags (30, 31, 32, 60, 61, 62, 90,
91, 92) are considered and included in the calculation.


The last part of the stylised facts distance is the difference between simulated and historical autocorrelations of
squared returns. The replication of autocorrelation patterns in squared returns indicates the model’s capability to
reproduce the volatility clustering stylised fact. It is shown empirically that large price changes tend to be followed by
other large price changes, known as the volatility clustering phenomenon. Consequently, though there are generally
no significant patterns in autocorrelations of returns, the autocorrelations of squared returns are significantly positive,
especially for small time lags. Also, as time lag increases, the autocorrelation of squared returns displays a slowly


15


AUGUST 30, 2022


decaying pattern, as shown in Figure 2. Similar to the difference between autocorrelations of returns ∆ _ACF_ 1, the
difference between autocorrelations of squared returns is calculated as follows:







∆ _ACF_ 2 =




 - _|ACFs_ ( _l, r_ [2] ) _−_ _ACFh_ ( _l, r_ [2] ) _|_

_l in lags_



(7)
_|lags|_



where _ACFs_ ( _l, r_ [2] ), _ACFh_ ( _l, r_ [2] ) are the autocorrelation function of lag _l_ for simulated squared returns and historical
squared returns, respectively. _|lags|_ denotes the number of lags used in the calculation. Here we use a slightly different
_lags_ from the case for autocorrelations of returns calculation. Since empirical autocorrelations of squared returns are
significantly positive and slowly decaying, we consider the autocorrelations of squared returns for four lags: 1, 30, 60,
and 90. The three-lag average smoothing is also applied in the calculation. In total, the autocorrelations of 12 lags (1, 2,
3, 30, 31, 32, 60, 61, 62, 90, 91, 92) are considered and included in the calculation.


The above four parts, along with the corresponding weights, constitute the stylised facts distance in Equation (3).
The next question is how to determine the associated weight for each part of the stylised facts distance. The basic
guiding idea is that the higher the sampling variability of a given part in historical data, the larger the difference between
simulated value and historical value that can still be deemed insignificant. A natural candidate for each weight is the
inverse of the sampling variance for the corresponding part in the stylised facts distance:


_wi_ = [1] (8)

_σi_ [2]


Following Franke and Westerhoff (2012), the sampling variance _σi_ [2] [for each part in the stylised facts distance is]
estimated by applying the block bootstrap method on the historical return time series.


Note that the stylised facts distance is a function of model parameters. In other words, given a set of model parameters,
there is a unique stylised facts distance calculated from the simulated time series, which corresponds to that particular
set of model parameters. Let _**θ**_ denote the vector of model parameters to be estimated, Equation (3) can be rewritten as:


_D_ ( _**θ**_ ) = _w_ 1 _∗_ ∆ _Hill_ ( _**θ**_ ) + _w_ 2 _∗_ ∆ _V_ ( _**θ**_ ) + _w_ 3 _∗_ ∆ _ACF_ 1( _**θ**_ ) + _w_ 4 _∗_ ∆ _ACF_ 2( _**θ**_ ) (9)


The smaller _D_ ( _**θ**_ ) is, the more realistic the simulation is. Thus _D_ ( _**θ**_ ) serves as the loss function that the calibration
method aims to minimize by finding an optimal set of model parameters. Let **Θ** denotes the admissible set for model
parameter vector _**θ**_, the calibration target is to find the optimal model parameter vector _**θ**_ **[ˆ]** that minimizes the stylised
facts distance:
_**θ**_ **ˆ** = arg min (10)
_**θ**_ _∈_ **Θ** _[D]_ [(] _**[θ]**_ [)]


**4.2** **Calibration Workflow and Results**


The model is calibrated by choosing values for the model parameters so that the dynamics of simulated price time
series match those observed empirical price time series. Specifically, the aim of the calibration process is to find _**θ**_ **[ˆ]** that
minimizes the stylised facts distance, as specified in Equation 10. As mentioned, data used in the calibration are the
price time series data of the most liquid contract of E-mini S&P 500 futures, from May 3rd, 2010 to May 6th, 2010.
The model parameters are calibrated for every trading day [8] . After a large-scale trial and error, seven model parameters
are selected to be calibrated. The seven parameters are: _µℓ_, _σNT_, _κ_ 1, _κ_ 2, _βL_, _βS_, _θMM_ . Specific meanings of these
seven parameters are presented in Section 3. In terms of the replication of stylised facts, our experiments show that
the simulation results are less sensitive to the values for other parameters. As a result, it is reasonable to keep other
parameters fixed. This choice significantly reduces the computational complexity of the calibration process. These
parameters and corresponding descriptions, as well as specific values, are presented in Appendix A and Appendix B.


The focus of this paper is not on specific methods for calibration; instead, we will pay more attention to the validation
part. Here we briefly present the calibration process. The calibration workflow has two stages in our experiments. The
main calibration technique in the first stage is the surrogate modelling approach, proposed by Lamperti et al. (2018).
Specifically, an XGBoost surrogate model is built to approximate the agent-based model simulation. The surrogate
model is capable of intelligently guiding the exploration of the parameter space. Estimated parameter values are those
that give rise to smaller stylised facts distance, indicating that simulated moments match those observed empirically.


8Due to the flash crash event in the afternoon trading session on May 6th, 2010, only the first half of the trading data (8:00-12:30)
is used to calibrate the model parameters for this trading day.


16


AUGUST 30, 2022


After the first stage of the calibration, optimal parameters are given by the surrogate model. Even though global
optimum is not guaranteed, it is shown in our experiments that the obtained parameter combination yields small stylised
facts distance and is capable of reproducing realistic price dynamics. It is likely that the global optimal parameters
are located close to the parameters generated by the first stage. Taking this into consideration, a numerical grid search
over a feasible bounded set of parameters is carried out. The feasible set of parameters is centered around the optimal
parameters given by the surrogate modelling approach in stage one. The parameter combination that yields the smallest
stylised facts distance is selected as the final calibrated model parameter combination. Calibrated model parameter
values for each trading day, as well as the yielded stylised facts distance, are presented in Table 2.


**Table 2** Calibrated values for the seven model parameters and the yielded stylised facts distances

|Date|µ<br>ℓ|σ<br>NT|κ<br>1|κ<br>2|β<br>L|β<br>S|θ<br>MM|D(θˆ)|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|20100503|0.9093|0.7895|0.1632|0.0235|0.0924|0.0252|0.7805|0.2259|
|20100504|1.2717|0.6732|0.0933|0.3402|0.6964|0.681|0.8998|0.2269|
|20100505|1.7396|0.6176|0.2844|0.2098|0.5935|0.055|0.8291|0.2191|
|20100506|1.0098|0.0107|0.3697|0.1649|0.7494|0.9877|0.3265|0.1666|



Figure 3 compares empirical time series of mid-price on May 5th to simulated mid-price time series. Visual
inspection shows that the model produces price time series whose dynamics are very similar to those in empirical data.
Nevertheless, quantitative assessment is required to validate the proposed simulation model, which is presented in the
subsequent section.


**Fig. 3** Comparison between empirical mid-price time series on May 5th and simulated mid-price time series on May 5th


**4.3** **Model Validation**


Table 2 shows the stylised facts distance of the calibrated model. However, the value itself does not present an
intuitive description of how well the simulated data fit empirical data. A cross-check on the validity of our model
topology and calibration strategy is needed. Following Franke and Westerhoff (2012), two metrics are used for assessing
the quality of the moment matching and the validity of the model simulation: the moment-specific p-value and the
moment coverage ratio.


**4.3.1** **Statistical Hypothesis Testing: Moment-specific p-value**


The stylised facts distance provides us with numerical values for the realism of the simulation. However, one more
elementary question needs to be addressed: whether the data generated by model calibration and simulation would
be rejected by the empirical data. The question is answered by calculating a moment-specific p-value as a statistical
hypothesis test.


Recall that in Section 4.1.4 the weights are calculated by the block bootstrapping method proposed in Franke and
Westerhoff (2012). While the variance of block bootstrapping samples is the corresponding weight for each part of the
loss function, the large number of samples obtained in this procedure can also be used to apply the loss function _D_ to
them. In this way an entire frequency distribution of values of _D_ is available, which can subsequently be contrasted with
the simulated distribution of values of _D_ . The fundamental idea is that the set of bootstrapped samples of return time
series is a proxy of the set of different return time series samples that could be produced if the hypothetical real-world


17


AUGUST 30, 2022


data generation process exists. Accordingly, if a simulated return time series yields a value of _D_ within the range of the
bootstrapped values of _D_, this simulated return time series is difficult to be distinguished from a real-world series.


Note that a Monte Carlo experiment is undertaken and the simulation is repeated many times to create a distribution
of model-generated _D_ values. In total, two distributions of _D_ values are obtained: bootstrapped distribution and Monte
Carlo simulated distribution. Let _N_ denote the number of bootstrapped samples. For consistency, we also select _N_
Monte Carlo samples to create the simulated distribution. Let _D_ _[b]_ and _D_ _[m]_ ( _**θ**_ **[ˆ]** ) denote the bootstrapped sample and
Monte Carlo sample, respectively [9] . The distributions of the following two sets of _D_ -values are then compared:


_Bootstrap_ : _{D_ _[b]_ _}_ _[N]_ _b_ =1
(11)
_Simulated_ : _{D_ _[m]_ ( _**θ**_ **[ˆ]** ) _}_ _[N]_ _m_ =1


The p-value is obtained as follows. A critical value of _D_ is established from the bootstrapped distribution of values
of _D_ . Taking account of the rare extreme events with a significance level of 5%, the critical value is defined to be
the 95% percentile _D_ 0 _._ 95 of the bootstrapped _D_ . In this way, a simulated return time series will be considered to be
inconsistent with the real-world data, and therefore be rejected, if the corresponding _D_ -value is larger than _D_ 0 _._ 95. Take
May 3rd trading day as an example. Here _D_ = 0 _._ 2114 is obtained as the critical value of the bootstrapped distance
function. As for the Monte Carlo simulation, the model-generated distribution of _D_ is prominently wider to the right.
Detailed calculation yields that _D_ 0 _._ 95 corresponds to the 18.33% percentile of the simulated distribution of values of
_D_ . Following the general moment matching convention in Franke and Westerhoff (2012), the model is said to have a
p-value of 0.1833, with respect to the estimated parameter vector _**θ**_ **[ˆ]**, the historical data for May 3rd, and the specific
moments that we have chosen. According to the conventional significance criteria, for this trading day the model will
not be rejected as being obviously inconsistent with the empirical data. Following Franke and Westerhoff (2012), a
p-value of 0.1833 is actually believed to be a fairly good performance for an agent-based financial market simulator.
The p-values for the calibrated model for all trading days are shown in Table 3.


**Table 3** P-values for the calibrated model for all trading days

|Date|20100503|20100504|20100505|20100506|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|p-value|0.1833|0.4167|0.0833|0.6167|



From Table 3 we can see that for all trading day in the collected dataset, the moment-specific p-values are greater
than 0.05. Consequently, we cannot reject the null hypothesis which specifies that the simulated return time series
belong to the same distribution as the empirical return time series. This statistical hypothesis testing gives evidence that
the calibrated model is capable of generating realistic financial price time series.


**4.3.2** **Moment Coverage Ratio**


The previous evaluation of the model was based on the values of the stylised facts distance function _D_ . While
statistical testing enables us to evaluate the validity of the model simulation, the quality of moment matching for
each specific moment is still unknown. Another potential issue is that the stylised facts distance function _D_ is the
optimisation target during the calibration process. Thus the evaluation metric involving the distance _D_ may be biased
because of the potential overfitting problem. To address the above problems, the "moment coverage ratio" (MCR)
metric is adopted to assess the degree of moment matching, taking into account each specific moment. The moment
coverage ratio is originally proposed in Franke and Westerhoff (2012). The basis for moment coverage ratio calculation
is the concept of a confidence interval of the empirical moments. Consistent with Franke and Westerhoff (2012), the
95% confidence interval of a moment is considered, which is defined to be the interval with boundaries _±_ 1.96 times the
standard deviation around the empirical value of this moment. The next step is to determine the standard deviation for
each empirical moment. Franke and Westerhoff (2012) apply the delta method to the autocorrelation coefficients to
calculate the standard deviation. In this paper, we use a more direct way to obtain the empirical standard deviation,
which is based on the block bootstrapping method. Recall that large quantities of return time series are obtained by the
block bootstrapping method. For each specific moment, a moment value can be calculated out of every sampled return
series. In total there will be _B_ values for each moment, where _B_ is the bootstrapping sample number. The standard
deviation of those values is considered to be the standard deviation for the corresponding empirical moment. One
may feel uneasy about the bootstrapping of the autocorrelation functions at the longer lags since the method alters
the temporal order of the return series. However, the block size in our block bootstrapping method is 1800, which is


9The Monte Carlo simulated distance value _D_ is dependent on the estimated set of parameters **ˆ** _**θ**_ .


18


AUGUST 30, 2022


significantly larger than the longest lag (90) in the autocorrelation functions. Consequently, the impact of bootstrapped
block re-ordering on the autocorrelation functions is negligible.


With the standard deviation on hand, the corresponding confidence interval for each specific moment is immediately
available. In this way an intuitive criterion for assessing a simulated return series is obtained: if all of its moments
are contained in the confidence intervals, the simulated return series cannot be rejected as being incompatible with
empirical data. Nonetheless, one single simulation is not sufficient to evaluate a model as a whole due to the sample
variability. In addition, it is likely that for one simulated return series some moments are contained in the confidence
interval while others are not. It goes without saying that considering multiple simulation runs of the model will provide
a more exhaustive assessment of the model performance. Specifically, for each simulation run the confidence interval
check is repeated. We count the number of Monte Carlo simulation runs in which the single moments are contained in
the corresponding confidence intervals. The corresponding percentage numbers out of all Monte Carlo runs are defined
as the moment coverage ratio.


Since the model is calibrated by each trading day, Monte Carlo simulation is run for each trading day and the
corresponding moment coverage ratios are calculated to evaluate the calibrated model. Table 4 presents the results of
the moment coverage ratios calculation. Except for the volatility moment on May 3rd and the 90-lag squared return
autocorrelation moment on May 4th, all other moment coverage ratios are higher than 50%. According to the analysis
in Franke and Westerhoff (2012), the higher than 50% moment coverage ratio represents a terrific performance of
the model. In addition, almost half of the moment coverage ratios are even higher than 90%, which indicates that
our calibrated model has an excellent ability to reproduce realistic stylised facts. Overall, with respect to the selected
moments, the calibrated model’s capability of matching empirical moments and reproducing realistic stylised facts is
highly remarkable.


**Table 4** Moment coverage ratios of the calibrated model

|Date<br>Moment|20100503|20100504|20100505|20100506|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Hill estimator (inverse)|98.3%|66.7%|98.3%|100.0%|
|Volatility|0.0%|85.0%|100.0%|56.7%|
|Return autocorrelation<br>(30 lags)|85.0%|78.3%|50.0%|90.0%|
|Return autocorrelation<br>(60 lags)|100.0%|98.3%|96.7%|96.7%|
|Return autocorrelation<br>(90 lags)|98.3%|60.0%|100.0%|58.3%|
|Squared return<br>autocorrelation (1 lag)|100.0%|98.3%|95.0%|93.3%|
|Squared return<br>autocorrelation (30 lags)|78.3%|51.7%|71.7%|98.3%|
|Squared return<br>autocorrelation (60 lags)|88.3%|10.0%|80.0%|73.3%|
|Squared return<br>autocorrelation (90 lags)|91.7%|46.7%|76.7%|51.7%|



**5** **2010 Flash Crash Scenarios**


As a real-world application, the proposed model is used to investigate market dynamics during flash crash events and
the conditions for the occurrence of flash crash scenarios. This section will present the reproduction and investigation
of a famous historical flash crash event - the flash crash on May 6th, 2010. In the next section, we will investigate
conditions for the occurrence of mini flash crash events.


**5.1** **Simulating Historical Flash Crash**


We simulate the 2010 Flash Crash within the framework of our high-frequency financial market simulator. The flash
crash happened in the afternoon trading session on May 6th, 2010, starting at around 14:30. As mentioned before,


19


AUGUST 30, 2022


the model parameters are calibrated to the data in the morning trading session (8:00-12:30) to avoid overfitting [10] .
According to the CFTC-SEC staff report, an automated execution algorithm, which aimed at selling a large number
of contracts, was identified as one important trigger for the flash crash. Consistent with this report, an institutional
trader is introduced in the simulator to mimic the automatic Sell Algorithm. The institutional trader will initiate a Sell
Algorithm that intends to sell a large quantity of contracts at 14:30 in our simulator. The parameters associated with
the institutional traders are tuned to reproduce realistic flash crash behaviours as in historical data. We present the
trading configuration of the institutional trader in the subsequent session, followed by a detailed analysis of the market
dynamics during the simulated flash crash event.


**5.1.1** **Introduction of Institutional Trader (INS)**



The institutional trader is specially designed to replicate the behaviour of the large institutional trader who initiated
the sell program to sell a large quantity of E-mini contracts on May 6th, 2010. In the beginning, the institutional trader
has a large inventory of _Q_ E-mini contracts. The institutional trader will start a sell program to sell the inventory at
14:30 in the simulation. Consistent with the historical scenarios, the sell program in the simulation is executed via
an automated execution algorithm that is programmed to submit orders into the market to target a certain execution
rate, which is a percentage of the market trading volume calculated over the previous minute. The execution rate is
denoted as _r_, which is set to 9% in our simulation according to SEC and CFTC (2010). Note that the Sell Algorithm
only considers total trading volume in the market, taking no account of the market price or time. This procyclical
behaviour is potentially one causal factor in the occurrence of flash crash events. As for specific trading behaviours, the
institutional trader always keeps count of the total trading volume _V_ of the last minute, and submits a market sell order
every _n_ seconds. For each market order, the volume would be _V ∗_ _r ∗_ 60 _[n]_ [, where] 60 _[n]_ [is a scaling factor ensuring the]

target execution rate _r_ is achieved by the sell program. The institutional trader continues trading until all the inventory
is cleared. Algorithm 7 describes the trading behaviours of the institutional trader in detail [11] .


**Algorithm 7** Institutional Trader Logic


1: Initialise _n_, _r_, _Q_
2: **for each** simulation step **do**
3: _V ←_ total trading volume in the market for the last minute
4: **if** (simulation timestamp _>_ 14 : 30 ) _∧_ ( _Q >_ 0) **then**
5: _vol ←_ _V ∗_ _r ∗_ 60 _[n]_ [;]

6: **if** ( _step_ _ _seconds_ mod _n_ ) == 0 **then**
7: Submit a market sell order with volume _vol_
8: _Q ←_ _Q −_ _vol_
9: **else**
10: No action taken
11: **end if**
12: **else**
13: No action taken
14: **end if**
15: **end for**


**5.1.2** **Market Behaviours during Flash Crash**


To generate a realistic flash crash event, we fine-tune the parameters of the newly introduced institutional trader.
According to SEC and CFTC (2010), the flash crash event is potentially caused by the "hot-potato" effect among highfrequency market makers and the mismatch of the trading frequency between different types of traders. Consequently,
we also tune the market maker inventory limit and the trading frequency of fundamental traders. The effect of these
parameters on the flash crash event will be presented in subsequent sessions. All other model parameters are fixed
and are given exactly the same values that are calibrated to the morning trading session data on May 6th, 2010. This
configuration helps to reduce the degree of freedom and avoid the potential problem of overfitting. The resulting
simulation of the price time series mimics the real-world flash crash event. Figure 4 presents such a single simulation
of the price trajectory that undergoes a flash crash scenario. The corresponding parameter configuration is shown in
Appendix C. Figure 5 presents a comparison between simulated trading volume and historical trading volume during


10Except for market maker inventory limit and fundamental trader trading frequency, which are key to generating realistic flash
crashes.
11The _step_ _ _seconds_ in the institutional trader logic is the number of seconds since the beginning of the simulation.


20


AUGUST 30, 2022


the whole day. Carefully examining such a single simulation provides useful insights into how the trading behaviour of
different types of traders interact to bring about a flash crash scenario.


**Fig. 4** One single simulation of the 2010 Flash Crash event. Red line is the historical price; green line is the simulated
price; blue line is the fundamental value extracted by Kalman Smoother


**Fig. 5** Comparison between simulated volume and historical volume on May 6th, 2010


By visual inspection, the simulation accurately replicated the defining characteristics of a flash crash. Figure 6
presents the total inventory level for each type of trader around the simulated flash crash event, and the market sell
order volume of the institutional trader. To assist with detailed inventory analysis during the flash crash event, Figure 7
presents the inventory level for each type of traders against simulated price during the time interval from 14:30 to
14:50. Figure 8 displays the market depth for both sides of the simulated limit order book, and the comparison between
simulated bid-ask spread and historical bid-ask spread. Detailed examination shows that the simulated flash crash
accurately matches the market dynamics during the historical 2010 Flash Crash. The dynamics around the simulated
flash crash event are as follows.


    - The overall market sentiment in the simulation is negative, as we can see that the fundamental value is broadly
decreasing before 14:00. At 14:00, according to Figure 6 the fundamental traders accumulate a negative
inventory due to continuously decreasing fundamental value, while market makers accumulate a positive
inventory. Before the flash crash event, the market depth for both sides of the limit order book is relatively
stable, while the simulated bid-ask spread is at a relatively low level.


    - At 14:30 in the simulated market, the market price has already dropped by 2.63% compared to the opening
price level. Regardless of the downward market trend, the institutional trader initiates a sell program to sell a
large number of inventories, which is 120,000 in our simulation. The institutional trader decides to execute
the sell program via an automated execution algorithm, which is set to feed market selling orders into the
market to target an execution rate of 9%. That is, for each minute the institutional traders aim to sell 9% of the
market trading volume calculated over the previous minute. Neither price nor time is considered by the Sell
Algorithm. Refer to Algorithm 7 for specific trading logic of the institutional trader.


21


AUGUST 30, 2022


    - In our simulation, market makers correspond to the high-frequency traders in the real market. The above
selling pressure is initially absorbed by market makers in our simulated market, which is consistent with the
dynamics in the historical market (SEC and CFTC 2010). This is shown by the inventory change for each type
of traders in Figure 7. From 14:30:00 to 14:40:50, the total inventory for market makers is rapidly increasing,
while the total inventory for low-frequency fundamental traders barely changed. During this approximately
11-minute time period, the price undergoes a further 2.61% drop. At 14:40:50, the market depth in the limit
order book has slightly decreased and the bid-ask spread has slightly increased. The scale of change for the
market depth and bid-ask spread is restricted because of the existence of market makers.

    - In addition to the above observations, the market transacted volume is continuously increasing during the
above 11-minute time interval due to the trading activities of the Sell Algorithm, as shown in Figure 5. Because
of its procyclical nature, the Sell Algorithm used by the institutional trader responds to the increased volume
by increasing the volume of sell orders that it is feeding into the market, even though the orders that it already
submitted to the market were not yet fully absorbed and have caused non-trivial market turbulence. The
increasing order volume of the institutional trader is shown in panel (b) of Figure 6.

    - As market makers are the buyers of the initial batch of orders sent by the institutional trader, they have
accumulated massive temporary long positions of the contracts. Nevertheless, the inventory of market makers
cannot accumulate infinitely. At 14:40:50, the inventory limits for many market makers are exceeded. At this
point, a dramatic and significant market crash starts. Those market makers, who have accumulated excessive
positions than their inventory limits, stop providing liquidity and begin to aggressively sell their inventories
in order to reduce their temporary long positions. This is consistent with the typical trading practice that a
market maker tends to maintain a relatively small aggregate inventory for the purpose of risk management.
Consequently, these market makers contribute further selling pressure to the market in addition to the Sell
Algorithm. Still lacking sufficient demand from fundamental traders, the aggregate sell volume is consumed
by remaining market makers who are still quoting in the market. As a result, more market makers accumulate
excessive positions than their inventory limits, which in turn forces them to sell their long positions to the
market. The same positions rapidly pass among all market makers. Such so-called "hot-potato" effect quickly
sweep almost all market makers in the market, resulting in a dramatic price drop and quoting suspension of
almost all market makers.

   - The combined selling pressure from the Sell Algorithm and market makers drove the price down by more
than 4.16% in less than two minutes from 14:40:50 to 14:42:20, with the price reaching its intra-day low
of 1053.5. Along with the price plunge, the market suffers from great liquidity loss. The liquidity loss can
be reflected by the sharp decrease of market depth during the simulated flash crash event. In the simulated
morning trading session, the average market depth for both bid and ask sides are around 5000. In contrast,
during the simulated large price plunge that starts at around 14:40, the market depth for both bid and ask sides
are less than 1000, even reaches 0 in bid side for more than 1 minute. The significant liquidity loss in our
simulation is mostly because of the withdrawal of market makers from the market. The withdrawal of market
makers in our simulation is consistent with empirical findings in SEC and CFTC (2010), which states that real
market makers did stop trading during the 2010 Flash Crash event. According to Figure 8, the market depth
for both sides of the limit order book dropped dramatically during this time period. There is less than 1% of
bid-side market depth observed during normal trading hours, with even zero bid-side market depth for around
30 seconds in the middle of 14:41. The bid-ask spread widens dramatically, reaching more than 20 ticks at this
short time interval.

    - As price drops quickly, the demand from fundamental traders gradually increases according to Equation 1.
Figure 7 shows that fundamental traders do absorb a portion of selling volume during the sharpest price
drop. However, the sudden decline in both price and liquidity indicates that the price was moving so fast that
fundamental traders were incapable of providing enough buying support.

    - After the price hits the intra-day low level, the demand from fundamental traders finally increased to a level
that is able to counteract the selling pressure from the institutional trader. Starting at 14:42:20, the price
hovers at the lower level for approximately one minute and then starts to bounce back quickly towards the
fundamental value. The Sell Algorithm continues to feed sell orders to the market until about 14:47, at which
point the inventory of the institutional trader has been emptied.


The above is a detailed analysis of the market dynamics of a simulated flash crash event. The simulated dynamics
accurately match the dynamics of the historical 2010 Flash Crash event. Both simulated flash crash and historical flash
crash have an amplitude of around 7% (starting from 14:30:00), and both prices undergo a similar "flash crash" shape.
A large Sell Algorithm is replicated to trigger the simulated flash crash, and is executed for around 17 minutes, which
is close to the 20 minutes execution time of the historical Sell Algorithm. The overall liquidity loss during the flash
crash is replicated accurately, with decreased market depth and enlarged bid-ask spread as emergent properties of the


22


AUGUST 30, 2022


simulation. We also reproduce realistic patterns in the simulated market trading volume. The detailed progress of the
simulated flash crash also matches the empirical analysis of the historical flash crash event.


In the subsequent section we will explore the conditions that influence the severity of the flash crash event.


**Fig. 6 (a)** : Total inventory level for each type of trader, around the simulated flash crash event (14:00 - 15:15). **(b)** : The
volume change for the selling orders of the institutional trader, during the time when institutional trader is active


**Fig. 7** Detailed simulated mid-price against the inventories of each category of trader from 14:30 to 14:50. **(a)** :
Simulated and historical price from 14:30 to 14:50. **(b)** : Total inventory level for each type of trader during time period
from 14:30 to 14:50


23


AUGUST 30, 2022


**Fig. 8 (a)** : Simulated market depth (total resting volume) of bid-side limit order book. **(b)** : Simulated market depth
(total resting volume) of ask-side limit order book. **(c)** : Bid-ask spread in the simulated limit order book. **(d)** : Bid-ask
spread in the historical limit order book. All four panels display time period spanning from 12:30 to 16:15


**5.2** **Flash Crash Under Different Conditions**


The above presents an analysis of the market dynamics during the simulated flash crash event. A natural question to
follow is what factors contribute to the sharp price drop. One significant advantage of the agent-based model is the
ability to be simulated multiple times under different conditions to reproduce realistic market events, while the historical
event only happens once. This makes agent-based model a perfect testbed for exploring the conditions that lead to
various rare market events, such as the flash crash. In this section, we explore the conditions that would influence the
severity of flash crash events.


To measure the severity of flash crash events, we define the amplitude of the flash crash event in our simulation as
the maximum percentage price drop after 14:00. Specifically, the flash crash amplitude _Amp_ is calculated as below:

_Amp_ = _|_ _[TWAP]_ [14:00] _[−]_ [14:05] _[ −]_ _[P][min]_ _|_ (12)

_TWAP_ 14:00 _−_ 14:05


where _TWAP_ 14:00 _−_ 14:05 is the time-weighted average price of time interval between 14:00 and 14:05, while _Pmin_ is
the lowest price during the flash crash simulation.


The main methodology applied here is Monte Carlo simulation experiments under controlled conditions. The
conditions are represented by model parameters. Each combination of model parameters corresponds to a specific
market condition configuration. For each combination of model parameters, multiple simulations are carried out. For
each simulation, the amplitude of the simulated flash crash is calculated. In this way a distribution of flash crash
amplitudes is obtained. To reduce the influence of extreme values, the 50% quantile of all the Monte Carlo simulated
amplitudes is defined as the flash crash amplitude associated with the condition that is represented by the specific
combination of model parameters. The 40% and 60% quantile of the simulated flash crash amplitudes are also recorded.


To explore how one specific condition affects the severity of flash crash events, we change the corresponding model
parameter and repeat the above Monte Carlo simulation to get the associated flash crash amplitude. The other model
parameters are given the previous calibrated values and are kept fixed during this experimental process. This allows us
to observe how the flash crash amplitude changes when only one specific model parameter changes. In particular, we
are interested in three model parameters that relate closely to the flash crash amplitude: the percentage of volume for
the Sell Algorithm ( _r_ ), the inventory limit for each market maker ( _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [), and the trading frequency for fundamental]


24


AUGUST 30, 2022


traders ( _FTfreq_ ). Figure 9 presents the relationships between these model parameters and the simulated flash crash
amplitude. Detailed analysis is as follows.


**Fig. 9 (a)** : Relationship between the amplitude of simulated flash crashes and the inventory limit of market makers. **(b)** :
Relationship between the amplitude of simulated flash crashes and the percentage of volume _r_ for the Sell Algorithm
(Institutional Trader). **(c)** : Relationship between the amplitude of simulated flash crashes and the trading frequency of
fundamental traders.


**Percentage of Volume for the Sell Algorithm**
One important parameter that characterises the Sell Algorithm is the percentage of volume _r_, which determines the
target execution rate of the Sell Algorithm. Specifically, _r_ is the percentage of the market trading volume calculated
over the previous minute that the Sell Algorithm aims to execute. Monte Carlo simulation is carried out with different
values for _r_, while other model parameters are given the previous calibrated values and are strictly kept constant. Panel
(a) in Figure 9 shows the relationship between the simulated flash crash amplitude and the percentage of volume _r_ .


It is shown that when _r_ is small, the amplitude of the flash crash is limited. When _r_ is increased, the flash crash
amplitude is also enlarged. Within a certain range, the more aggressive the Sell Algorithm (larger _r_ ), the more severe
the flash crash event (larger amplitude). This phenomenon is consistent with our intuition. One interesting phenomenon
is that after _r_ exceeds 5%, the flash crash amplitude barely changes even though we continue to increase the value of _r_ .
The reason is that as long as the price reaches a certain lower level, the demand generated from fundamental traders
is large enough to digest the inventory of the institutional trader. Since the total inventory of the institutional trader
is fixed, the lowest price that could be reached during the simulation barely changed. Consequently, the flash crash
amplitude stops increasing despite larger values for _r_ .


The lessons learned from this experiment mainly involves the choice of the algorithmic trading strategies for large
institutional traders. The market impact of an algorithmic trading strategy may contradict our intuition, as is the case
here when _r_ is larger than 5%. Instead, the complex interaction between an algorithmic trading strategy and other
market participants is likely to cause unexpected consequences. It is strongly recommended that institutional traders
deploy agent-based financial market simulation to explore potential consequences before choosing a specific algorithmic
trading strategy.


**Inventory limit for market makers**
Both empirical and simulation analyses indicate that high-frequency market makers play an important role in the flash
crash event. Though market makers initially absorb lots of selling pressure from the institutional trader, they quickly
turn into aggressive sellers after their inventory limits are exceeded, creating the "hot-potato" effect that exacerbates
the crash. The inventory limit _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [plays an important role in controlling the significance of the "hot-potato" effect.]
Consequently, the value of _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [also influences the flash crash amplitude. We run Monte Carlo simulations with]
different values for _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [. Other parameters are given the previous calibrated values and are kept constant. Panel (b) in]
Figure 9 presents the relationship between the simulated flash crash amplitude and the inventory limit for each market
maker _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [.]


It is shown that the functional relationship between flash crash amplitude and market maker inventory limit is not
monotonous. When the _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [is relatively small (smaller than 8000 in our simulation), the flash crash amplitude is]
an increasing function with regard to _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [. This is because the larger the] _[ ε][MM]_ _limit_ [, the more inventory that the market]
makers will accumulate. With more accumulated inventory, the market makers will create much more selling pressure at
the point when their inventory limits are exceeded, resulting in a more severe crash. However, the flash crash amplitude
is decreasing on increasing the value of _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [if the] _[ ε]_ _limit_ _[MM]_ [is larger than a certain level (around 8000 in our simulation).]
This is because the large enough _ε_ _[MM]_ _limit_ [makes it possible for market makers to absorb a larger portion of selling pressure]


25


AUGUST 30, 2022


from the Sell Algorithm. As a result, there are fewer market makers whose inventory limits are reached, curtailing the
"hot-potato" effect during the flash crash. In extreme cases when inventory limits for market makers are infinite, the
market makers will absorb all selling pressure in the market and there will be no flash crash event.


The analysis here emphasizes the importance of risk management for high-frequency market makers. Since all
market makers have some sort of inventory control, the decreasing part of panel (b) in Figure 9 is hardly feasible in the
real-world trading environment. Instead, most real-world market makers have inventory limits that lie on the increasing
part of the curve. An individual market maker may consider his own inventory limit to be proper; however, multiple
"proper" inventory limits combined may lead to a significant crash under stressed scenarios due to the "hot-potato"
effect. In order to foster a smooth and stable market, experimental results suggest that policymakers could impose
certain inventory limits on all high-frequency market makers.


**Trading frequency for fundamental traders**
According to Karvik et al. (2018), the mismatch of trading frequency between different types of traders is an
important factor that leads to flash crash scenarios. The flash crash happens when the market is dominated by the
procyclical behaviours of high-frequency market participants. The price moves so fast that lower frequency fundamental
traders are unable to supply enough buy-side liquidity. So what will happen if we change the relative frequency
between the market makers and fundamental traders in our simulation? Experiments are carried out with different
trading frequencies for fundamental traders. The trading frequency of fundamental traders is changed by changing
_Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [, which is the interval between actions from the same fundamental traders. Specifically, once a fundamental]
trader submits an order to the market, the same fundamental trader is not able to participate in the simulated market
within the subsequent _Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [steps. Only after] _[ S]_ _interval_ _[F T]_ [step can this fundamental trader submit another order to the]
market. In the default calibrated simulation _Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [is 100, while the same interval for market makers is 1. In other]
words, market makers can act in every simulation step, while a fundamental trader can only act once in every 100 steps.
The smaller the _Sinterval_ _[F T]_ [is, the higher the trading frequency for fundamental traders. If] _[ S]_ _interval_ _[F T]_ [has value 1, the]
fundamental traders would have the same trading frequency as market makers, creating the imaginary "high-frequency
fundamental traders". Panel (c) in Figure 9 presents how the flash crash amplitude changes when the trading frequency
of fundamental traders changes.


The figure indicates that there is a monotonous relationship between flash crash amplitude and the trading frequency
of fundamental traders. Note that the larger the interval is, the lower the trading frequency is. Thus the flash crash
amplitude is decreasing when we increase the trading frequency of fundamental traders. If the fundamental traders have
the same trading frequency as the market makers, the flash crash amplitude becomes small enough that the flash crash
turns into a small shock in the market.


The analysis here supports the argument that the mismatch of trading frequency between different types of traders
potentially leads to flash crash events. There is hardly an imaginary "high-frequency fundamental trader" in the
real-world trading environment. Thus practical trading environment corresponds to the right-hand part of the functional
relationship in Panel (c) of Figure 9, where fundamental traders act at a lower frequency. The results indirectly show
that high-frequency trader is an important factor in the occurrence of flash crash scenarios.


**6** **Mini Flash Crash Scenarios**


The above section provides an analysis of the occurrence of flash crash events. The 2010 Flash Crash is so large that
no following events have rivalled its depth, breadth, and speed of price movement (Paddrik et al. 2017). However, flash
crashes on a smaller scale do occur more frequently. Johnson et al. (2012) identify more than 18,000 mini flash crash
incidents between 2006 and 2011 in US equity markets. Those mini flash crashes are characterised to be abrupt and
severe price changes over a short period of time. One natural question is how those mini flash crashes happened. As a
second application for the proposed agent-based model, we investigate and analyse the causes of mini flash crashes in
the framework of our agent-based financial market simulation. An innovative "Spiking Trader" is introduced to the
market to mimic the trigger of mini flash crash events. A typical mini flash crash event in our simulation is analysed in
detail, followed by experiments for exploring the conditions for mini flash crash events.


**6.1** **Introduction of Spiking Trader (ST)**


In the current literature, there is a growing consensus that the mini flash crashes result from interactions between
various trading algorithms that operate at or beyond the limits of human response times, such as the procyclical
behaviours of high-frequency market participants. However, there are various triggers for mini flash crash events.
According to Karvik et al. (2018), one specific trigger could be orders that are large relative to the supply of available


26


AUGUST 30, 2022


limit orders, which bring price shocks to the market. To mimic the occasional price shock in the market, a type of trader
agent called "Spiking Trader" is introduced to our agent-based artificial financial market.


The proposed spiking trader mainly creates price shocks to the market, either upward or downward. Initially the
spiking trader is inactive. For each simulation step, there is a small probability that a spiking trader is activated. Once
activated, the spiking trader will submit market orders of the same direction for several consecutive simulation steps,
creating price shocks in one direction. A spiking trader is associated with three parameters: _Nspike_, _µspike_, and _Vspike_ .
_Nspike_ represents the number of consecutive orders to be submitted after the spiking trader is activated. _µspike_ is the
probability of being activated in a certain simulation step. _Vspike_ is the volume of the orders from spiking traders.
Detailed trading logic for spiking traders is shown in Algorithm 8. Note that _NST_ spiking traders are introduced to the
agent-based simulation model. In our experiments, _NST_ has value 2.


**Algorithm 8** Spiking Trader Logic


1: Initialise _Nspike_, _µspike_, _Vspike_
2: _Status ←_ 0; _D ←_ Sell
3: **for each** simulation step **do**
4: **if** _Status >_ 0 **then**
5: Submit a market order with volume _Vspike_, direction _D_
6: _Status ←_ _Status −_ 1
7: **else**
8: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _< µspike_ **then**
9: **if** _p ∈_ _U_ (0 _,_ 1) _<_ 0 _._ 5 **then** _D ←_ Sell **else** _D ←_ Buy **end if**
10: _Status ←_ _Nspike_
11: **else**
12: No action taken
13: **end if**
14: **end if**
15: **end for**


**6.2** **Mini Flash Crash Analysis**


To investigate mini flash crash events, there are some modifications to the simulation configuration. The number of
market makers in the simulation is reduced. Our experiments show that this increases the probability of the occurrence
of mini flash crash events. The reason is that less market makers will lead to thinner market depth, generating more
mini flash crash events for scrutiny. The institutional trader is removed from the market; while two spiking traders are
introduced to the market simulation. Other model parameters are the same as the simulation for the 2010 Flash Crash.
Detailed model parameters for mini flash crash simulation are shown in Appendix D.


Figure 10 presents a typical mini flash crash scenario in our simulation. The price drops nearly 80 basis points in
just several seconds, and then bounces back towards the fundamental value. Figure 11 shows the inventory level for
each type of trader against simulated price during the mini flash crash scenario. According to Figure 11, the trigger and
dynamics for that specific simulated mini flash crash are very straightforward:


    - At 12:08:38, a spiking trader is activated to bring downward shocks to the market. The spiking trader submits
sell orders to the market in the next 2 seconds. Those sell pressure in the 2-second interval is mainly absorbed
by market makers.


    - Having absorbed the sell orders from spiking trader, one market maker accumulates a relatively large inventory
at 12:08:40 and the inventory limit is reached. For risk management purposes, the market maker decides to
reduce the position and then temporarily withdraw from the market. The sell orders from this market maker
are digested by other market makers.


    - The same high-frequency dynamic happens between 12:08:40 and 12:08:42. During this small time period, the
same positions transfer between different market makers, creating the "hot-potato" effect on a smaller scale.
Several market makers withdraw from the market temporarily after emptying their inventory.


    - At 12:08:42, only 4 seconds after the spiking trader is activated, the market suffers from the liquidity loss
because of the withdrawal of some market makers. The sell orders from the remaining market makers create
dramatic market impacts due to thin liquidity, dragging the price down for more than 60 basis points in 5
seconds.


27


AUGUST 30, 2022


    - At 12:08:47, the price has dropped 80 basis points compared to the price level at 12:08:38. The price then
stops dropping and then gradually bounces back to the original level.


Note that in the above simulation, the fundamental traders are configured to have a trading interval of 100 steps,
which is the calibrated value from Section 4. The specific simulated mini flash crash event happens in a time horizon
that is shorter than the horizon over which lower frequency fundamental traders observe the market. This is shown in
Figure 11, where the inventory for fundamental traders hardly changed during the mini flash crash event. The analysis
shows that the mini flash crash events result from the procyclical behaviours among high-frequency market makers,
precipitated by price shocks that are created by spiking traders or other market participants.


**Fig. 10** One typical simulated mini flash crash event. Red line is the historical price; green line is the simulated price;
blue line is the fundamental value


**Fig. 11** Detailed simulated price against the inventories of each type of trader during the simulated mini flash crash
event. **(a)** : Simulated and historical price from 12:08:30 to 12:09:00. **(b)** : Total inventory level for each type of trader
during time period from 12:08:30 to 12:09:00


**6.3** **Conditions for Mini Flash Crash Scenarios**


In Section 5.2 we explore how different conditions influence the amplitude of large flash crash events. Here we
address the question that how those conditions influence the characteristics of mini flash crash events. Since the
institutional trader is removed from the simulation, two conditions that are unrelated to the institutional trader are
considered: market makers inventory limit and trading frequency of fundamental traders. Unlike the colossal flash
crashes that happen extremely rarely, mini flash crashes occur more frequently in modern financial markets where
high-frequency trading contributes to a vast portion of transactions. Consequently, the characteristic of mini flash crash
events is twofold: the frequency for the occurrence of mini flash crash events and the crash severity once a mini flash
crash occurs.


To explore the characteristics of mini flash crashes under different conditions, Monte Carlo simulation is carried
out. For the purpose of consistency, the simulation also mimics the E-mini futures market on May 6th. The simulation
spans from 8:00 to 12:30 on May 6th, 2010, excluding the afternoon trading session to reduce the influence of the
large historical flash crash event. Except for the two model parameters that represent the two conditions that are of


28


AUGUST 30, 2022


interest, other model parameters are assigned the same value as the calibration results and are strictly kept fixed [12] . For
each parameter combination, which represents a specific condition, we run 60 simulations and calculate the average
frequency for the occurrence of mini flash crash events and the average amplitude for the mini flash crash events.


The only remaining question to solve is how to count the mini flash crashes and how to measure the amplitude of a
mini flash crash. Following Karvik et al. (2018), a mini flash crash is classified as a _k_ standard deviation move in price,
which reverses over a horizon that is less than certain time periods. The _k_ has value 2, 3, 4 in our experiments. Note
that because the spiking trader can create both upward and downward price shock, we also consider the upward "flare
up" event as another form of mini flash crash [13] . Specifically, in our experiments a _k_ -sd mini flash crash is defined to be
the peak or trough price behaviour inside a 10-minute interval, where the price moves more than _k_ standard deviations
and then bounces back. The _k_ standard deviation is calculated by reference to the minute-level return. Inspired by
topography, the amplitude of the mini flash crash event is then defined to be the prominence of the peak or trough price
trajectory. A specific method to calculate the prominence can be found in Virtanen et al. (2020).


We calculate the average number of the occurrence of mini flash crash and the average amplitude for the mini flash
crash events under different conditions. The results are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13.


Figure 12 presents how the average number of mini flash crashes per simulation changes when the inventory limit
of market makers and trading frequency of fundamental traders vary. As shown in panel (a), increasing the inventory
limit will decrease the average number of mini flash crashes in our simulation, indicating a lower frequency for the
occurrence of mini flash crash events. This result is consistent with our intuition. The larger the inventory limit for
market makers, the more selling pressure market makers are able to absorb. Thus the "hot-potato" effect is less probable
to appear with a larger inventory limit for market makers, resulting in fewer mini flash crashes. As for the trading
frequency of fundamental traders, however, the frequency of the occurrence for mini flash crash events barely changes
when we vary the trading frequency parameter of fundamental traders. This is presented in panel (b) of Figure 12.
One possible explanation is that mini flash crash events happen in an extremely short time scale and the amplitude is
relatively small. Consequently, fundamental traders are hardly able to nor willing to participate during the course of the
mini flash crash events.


Figure 13 presents how the average amplitude of mini flash crashes changes when the inventory limit of market
makers and trading frequency of fundamental traders vary. As demonstrated by Panel (a) in Figure 13, the functional
relationship between mini flash crash amplitude and market maker inventory limit is not monotonous. The average mini
flash crash amplitude is an increasing function with regard to market maker inventory limit when the inventory limit is
small, while it turns into a decreasing function when the market maker inventory limit is large enough. The logic here is
very similar to the analysis in Section 5.2. While the market maker inventory limit is small, increasing the inventory
limit will result in more selling pressure when the inventory limit is hit, leading to a larger crash amplitude. However, a
large enough market maker inventory limit would absorb most shocks in the market, restricting the scale of the mini
flash crash events. Moving on to panel (b) in Figure 13, we observe no obvious influence of fundamental traders trading
frequency on the amplitude of mini flash crash events. This phenomenon once again demonstrates that fundamental
traders hardly participate during the course of mini flash crash events.


**Fig. 12 (a)** : Relationship between the average number of mini flash crashes per simulation and the inventory limit
of market maker. **(b)** : Relationship between the average number of mini flash crashes per simulation and the trading
frequency of fundamental traders.


12Due to no calibration results, the model parameters for the newly introduced spiking trader are given values heuristically.
13The definition for "flare up" and "flash crash" are symmetrical: "flare up" is a rapid price rise followed by a price drop.


29


AUGUST 30, 2022


**Fig. 13 (a)** : Relationship between the average amplitude of simulated mini flash crashes and the inventory limit of
market maker. **(b)** : Relationship between the average amplitude of simulated mini flash crashes and the trading
frequency of fundamental traders.


**7** **Conclusion and Future Work**


**7.1** **Summary of Achievements**


A novel high-frequency agent-based financial market simulator is implemented to generate a realistic high-frequency
simulated financial market. Each simulation step corresponds to 100 milliseconds in the real-world trading environment.
Full exchange protocols (limit order books) are implemented to simulate the order matching process. In this way, we
provide a microstructure model of a single security traded on a central limit order book in which market participants
follow fixed behavioural rules. The model is calibrated using the machine learning surrogate modelling approach.
Statistical test and moment coverage ratio results show that the simulation is capable of reproducing realistic stylised
facts in financial markets.


The simulator is then employed to explore the dynamics during flash crash episodes and the conditions that affect
flash crash episodes. Under the framework of the proposed high-frequency agent-based financial market simulator,
the 2010 Flash Crash is realistically simulated by introducing an institutional trader that mimics the real-world Sell
Algorithm on May 6th, 2010. We investigate the market dynamics during the simulated flash crash and show that
the simulated dynamics are consistent with what happened in historical flash crash scenarios. We then explore the
conditions that could influence the characteristics of the 2010 Flash Crash. It is found that three conditions significantly
affect the amplitude of the 2010 Flash Crash: the percentage of volume of the Sell Algorithm, market maker inventory
limit, and the trading frequency of fundamental traders. In particular, we found that the relationship between the
amplitude of the simulated 2010 Flash Crash and the POV of the Sell Algorithm is not monotonous, and so is the
relationship between the amplitude and the market maker inventory limit. For the trading frequency of fundamental
traders, the higher the frequency, the smaller the amplitude of the simulated 2010 Flash Crash.


Similar analysis is carried out for mini flash crash events. An innovative type of trader called "Spiking Trader"
is introduced to the agent-based financial market simulator, creating more price shock and precipitating more mini
flash crash events. Market dynamics for a typical simulated mini flash crash event are analysed. We also explore the
conditions that could influence the characteristics of mini flash crash events. Experimental results show that market
maker inventory limit significantly affects both the frequency and amplitude of mini flash crash events. However, the
trading frequency of fundamental traders shows no obvious influence on mini flash crash events in our experiments.


**7.2** **Future Work**


During the 2010 Flash Crash, there are lots of cross-market arbitrageurs who transferred the selling pressure to
the equities markets by opportunistically buying E-Mini contracts and simultaneously selling products like SPY. This
cross-market mechanism has not yet been implemented in our agent-based modelling framework. One future direction
is to implement simulated markets for two correlated securities and explore the contagion during stressed scenarios.
Another extension is to use the proposed agent-based financial market simulation framework for examining how
regulatory policy interventions could influence the current market dynamics. For example, whether a circuit breaker in
the market would help stabilize financial markets and curb the severity of flash crash scenarios. Last but not the least, an
examination of possible indicators of an imminent flash crash event is another interesting future extension of this work.


30


AUGUST 30, 2022


**References**


Borkovec, M., Domowitz, I., Serbin, V., and Yegerman, H. (2010). Liquidity and price discovery in exchange-traded
funds: One of several possible lessons from the flash crash. _The Journal of Index Investing_, 1(2):24–42.

Byron, M. Y., Shenoy, K. V., and Sahani, M. (2004). Derivation of kalman filtering and smoothing equations. In
_Technical report_ . Stanford University.

Chiarella, C. (1992). The dynamics of speculative behaviour. _Annals of operations research_, 37(1):101–123.


Cont, R. (2007). Volatility clustering in financial markets: Empirical facts and agent-based models. In _Long memory in_
_economics_, pages 289–309. Springer.

Darley, V. and Outkin, A. (2007). _A NASDAQ market simulation: insights on a major market from the science of_
_complex adaptive systems_, volume 1. World Scientific.

Franke, R. and Westerhoff, F. (2012). Structural stochastic volatility in asset pricing dynamics: Estimation and model
contest. _Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control_, 36(8):1193–1211.

Gode, D. K. and Sunder, S. (1993). Allocative efficiency of markets with zero-intelligence traders: Market as a partial
substitute for individual rationality. _Journal of political economy_, 101(1):119–137.


Golub, A., Keane, J., and Poon, S. (2012). High frequency trading and mini flash crashes. _Available at SSRN 2182097_ .

Hayes, R., Todd, A., Chaidarun, N., Tepsuporn, S., Beling, P., and Scherer, W. (2014). An agent-based financial
simulation for use by researchers. In _Proceedings of the Winter Simulation Conference 2014_, pages 300–309.


Hill, J. B. (2010). On tail index estimation for dependent, heterogeneous data. _Econometric Theory_, 26(5):1398–1436.

Johnson, N., Zhao, G., Hunsader, E., Meng, J., Ravindar, A., Carran, S., and Tivnan, B. (2012). Financial black swans
driven by ultrafast machine ecology. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1202.1448_ .


Karvik, G., Noss, J., Worlidge, J., and Beale, D. (2018). The deeds of speed: an agent-based model of market liquidity
and flash episodes. _Bank of England Working Paper_ .


Kirilenko, A., Kyle, A. S., Samadi, M., and Tuzun, T. (2017). The flash crash: High-frequency trading in an electronic
market. _The Journal of Finance_, 72(3):967–998.

Kyle, A. S. and Obižaeva, A. (2020). _Large bets and stock market crashes_ . CEFIR.

Lamperti, F., Roventini, A., and Sani, A. (2018). Agent-based model calibration using machine learning surrogates.
_Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control_, 90:366–389.

LeBaron, B. (2001). A builder’s guide to agent-based financial markets. _Quantitative finance_, 1:254–261.

Madhavan, A. (2012). Exchange-traded funds, market structure, and the flash crash. _Financial Analysts Journal_,
68(4):20–35.


Majewski, A., Ciliberti, S., and Bouchaud, J. P. (2020). Co-existence of trend and value in financial markets: Estimating
an extended chiarella model. _Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control_, 112:103791.

McGroarty, F., Booth, A., Gerding, E., and Chinthalapati, V. R. (2019). High frequency trading strategies, market
fragility and price spikes: An agent based model perspective. _Annals of Operations Research_, 282(1):217–244.


Menkveld, A. (2013). High frequency trading and the new market makers. _Journal of financial Markets_, 16(4):712–740.

Menkveld, A. and Yueshen, B. Z. (2019). The flash crash: A cautionary tale about highly fragmented markets.
_Management Science_, 65(10):4470–4488.

O’Hara, M. (1995). _Market Microstructure Theory_ . Wiley.

Paddrik, M., Hayes, R., Scherer, W., and Beling, P. (2017). Effects of limit order book information level on market
stability metrics. _Journal of Economic Interaction and Coordination_, 12(2):221–247.

Paddrik, M., Hayes, R., Todd, A., Yang, S., Beling, P., and Scherer, W. (2012). An agent based model of the e-mini
s&p 500 applied to flash crash analysis. In _2012 IEEE Conference on Computational Intelligence for Financial_
_Engineering and Economics (CIFEr)_, pages 1–8.

Paulin, J., Calinescu, A., and Wooldridge, M. (2019). Understanding flash crash contagion and systemic risk: A
micro–macro agent-based approach. _Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control_, 100:200–229.

Ralaivola, L. and d’Alche Buc, F. (2005). Time series filtering, smoothing and learning using the kernel kalman filter.
_Proceedings of 2005 IEEE International Joint Conference on Neural Networks_, 3:1449–1454.

SEC and CFTC (2010). Findings regarding the market events of may 6, 2010. _Washington DC_ .

Sewell, M. (2011). Characterization of financial time series. _Research Note_, 11(01):01.


31


AUGUST 30, 2022


Todd, A., Beling, P., Scherer, W., and Yang, S. Y. (2016). Agent-based financial markets: A review of the methodology
and domain. In _2016 IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence (SSCI)_, pages 1–5.

Virtanen, P., Gommers, R., Oliphant, T. E., Haberland, M., Reddy, T., Cournapeau, D., Burovski, E., Peterson, P.,
Weckesser, W., Bright, J., van der Walt, S. J., Brett, M., Wilson, J., Millman, K. J., Mayorov, N., Nelson, A. R. J.,
Jones, E., Kern, R., Larson, E., Carey, C. J., Polat, [˙] I., Feng, Y., Moore, E. W., VanderPlas, J., Laxalde, D., Perktold,
J., Cimrman, R., Henriksen, I., Quintero, E. A., Harris, C. R., Archibald, A. M., Ribeiro, A. H., Pedregosa, F., van
Mulbregt, P., and SciPy 1.0 Contributors (2020). SciPy 1.0: Fundamental Algorithms for Scientific Computing in
Python. _Nature Methods_, 17:261–272.


32


AUGUST 30, 2022

# **Appendices**


**A** **Descriptions for All Model Parameters**


**Table 5** Descriptions for All Parameters involved in the proposed agent-based model





















|Parameter|Description|Parameter|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|_κ_1|FT: Coefﬁcient for linear demand<br>component|_κ_2|FT: Coefﬁcient for polynomial demand<br>component|
|_NF T_|FT: Number of FT|_SF T_<br>_interval_|FT: Interval between fundamental<br>trading activities.|
|_βL_|LMT: Coefﬁcient for demand calculation|_αL_|LMT: Coefﬁcient for demand calculation|
|_NLMT_|LMT: Number of LMT|_βS_|SMT: Coefﬁcient for demand calculation|
|_NSMT_|SMT: Number of SMT|_αS_|SMT: Coefﬁcient for demand calculation|
|_σNT_|NT: Coefﬁcient for demand calculation|_NNT_|NT: Number of NT|
|_γ_|LMT & SMT: Coefﬁcient for demand<br>calculation|_δ_|NT, LMT & SMT: Limit order<br>cancellation rate|
|_ρ_|NT, LMT & SMT: Ratio between<br>probability of submitting a market order<br>and probability of submitting a limit<br>order|_V_|NT, FT, LMT, SMT, MM: Order volume|
|_µℓ_|NT, LMT & SMT: Mean of the<br>log-normal distribution from which limit<br>order price distance is sampled|Σ_ℓ_|NT, LMT & SMT: Standard deviation of<br>the log-normal distribution from which<br>limit order price distance is sampled|
|_NMM_|MM: Number of MM|_δMM_|MM: Limit order cancellation rate|
|_θMM_|MM: Probability of submitting a quote|_pMM_<br>_edge_|MM: Maximum price distance of<br>submitted order|
|_ε_~~_MM_~~<br>_limit_|MM: Position limit|_ε_~~_MM_~~<br>_safe_|MM: Safe position level|
|_εMM_<br>_rest_|MM: Time length for the trading<br>suspension|_NST_|ST: Number of ST|
|_Nspike_|ST: Number of consecutive orders to be<br>submitted after ST is activated|_µspike_|ST: Probability of being activated in a<br>certain simulation step|
|_Vspike_|ST: Order volume|_r_|INS: Target execution rate|
|_Q_|INS: Number of initial inventory|_n_|INS: Number of seconds between<br>consecutive market sell orders|


33


AUGUST 30, 2022


**B** **Values for Fixed Model Parameters in Calibration**


**Table 6** Values for fxed model parameters in calibration

|Parameter|κ<br>1|κ<br>2|N<br>F T|SF T<br>interval|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Value|N.A.|N.A.|30|100|
|Parameter|_βL_|_αL_|_NLMT_|_βS_|
|Value|N.A.|0.001|30|N.A.|
|Parameter|_NSMT_|_αS_|_σNT_|_NNT_|
|Value|30|0.9|N.A.|30|
|Parameter|_γ_|_δ_|_ρ_|_V_|
|Value|10|0.005|0.2|100|
|Parameter|_µℓ_|Σ_ℓ_|_NMM_|_δMM_|
|Value|N.A.|0.3|20|0.05|
|Parameter|_θMM_|_pMM_<br>_edge_|_εMM_<br>_limit_|_εMM_<br>_safe_|
|Value|N.A.|4|5000|101|
|Parameter|_εMM_<br>_rest_|_NST_|_Nspike_|_µspike_|
|Value|12000|N.A.|N.A.|N.A.|
|Parameter|_Vspike_|_r_|_Q_|_n_|
|Value|N.A.|N.A.|N.A.|N.A.|



**C** **Values for Model Parameters in 2010 Flash Crash Simulation**


**Table 7** Values for model parameters in 2010 Flash Crash simulation

|Parameter|κ<br>1|κ<br>2|N<br>F T|SF T<br>interval|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Value|0.1390|0.4562|30|100|
|Parameter|_βL_|_αL_|_NLMT_|_βS_|
|Value|0.3017|0.001|30|0.1273|
|Parameter|_NSMT_|_αS_|_σNT_|_NNT_|
|Value|30|0.9|0.3403|30|
|Parameter|_γ_|_δ_|_ρ_|_V_|
|Value|10|0.005|0.2|100|
|Parameter|_µℓ_|Σ_ℓ_|_NMM_|_δMM_|
|Value|1.9349|0.3|20|0.05|
|Parameter|_θMM_|_pMM_<br>_edge_|_εMM_<br>_limit_|_εMM_<br>_safe_|
|Value|0.6624|4|7000|101|
|Parameter|_εMM_<br>_rest_|_NST_|_Nspike_|_µspike_|
|Value|12000|N.A.|N.A.|N.A.|
|Parameter|_Vspike_|_r_|_Q_|_n_|
|Value|N.A.|9%|120,000|12|



34


AUGUST 30, 2022


**D** **Values for Model Parameters in Mini Flash Crash Simulation**


**Table 8** Values for model parameters in Mini Flash Crash simulation

|Parameter|κ<br>1|κ<br>2|N<br>F T|SF T<br>interval|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Value|0.1390|0.4562|30|100|
|Parameter|_βL_|_αL_|_NLMT_|_βS_|
|Value|0.3017|0.001|30|0.1273|
|Parameter|_NSMT_|_αS_|_σNT_|_NNT_|
|Value|30|0.9|0.3403|30|
|Parameter|_γ_|_δ_|_ρ_|_V_|
|Value|10|0.005|0.2|100|
|Parameter|_µℓ_|Σ_ℓ_|_NMM_|_δMM_|
|Value|1.9349|0.3|5|0.05|
|Parameter|_θMM_|_pMM_<br>_edge_|_εMM_<br>_limit_|_εMM_<br>_safe_|
|Value|0.6624|4|4000|101|
|Parameter|_εMM_<br>_rest_|_NST_|_Nspike_|_µspike_|
|Value|12000|2|4|0.005|
|Parameter|_Vspike_|_r_|_Q_|_n_|
|Value|100|N.A.|N.A.|N.A.|



35


