## Adaptive Optimal Market Making Strategies with Inventory Liquidation Cost [вҲ—]

Jonathan ChВҙavez-Casillas [вҖ ], JosВҙe E. Figueroa-LВҙopez [вҖЎ], Chuyi Yu [В§], and Yi Zhang [В¶]


May 21, 2024


**Abstract**


A novel high-frequency market-making approach in discrete time is proposed that admits


closed-form solutions. By taking advantage of demand functions that are linear in the quoted


bid and ask spreads with random coefficients, we model the variability of the partial filling


of limit orders posted in a limit order book (LOB). As a result, we uncover new patterns as


to how the demandвҖҷs randomness affects the optimal placement strategy. We also allow the


price process to follow general dynamics without any Brownian or martingale assumption as


is commonly adopted in the literature. The most important feature of our optimal placement


strategy is that it can react or adapt to the behavior of market orders online. Using LOB data,


we train our model and reproduce the anticipated final profit and loss of the optimal strategy on


a given testing date using the actual flow of orders in the LOB. Our adaptive optimal strategies


outperform the non-adaptive strategy and those that quote limit orders at a fixed distance from


the midprice.


вҲ—A preprint of this paper was distributed under the title of вҖңMarket Making with Stochastic Liquidity Demand:


Simultaneous Order Arrival and Price Change ForecastsвҖқ. The present paper extends the results in the referred


preprint, which will remain as an unpublished manuscript.

вҖ Department of Mathematics and Applied Mathematical Sciences, University of Rhode Island, USA


( `jchavezc@uri.edu` ).

вҖЎDepartment of Statistics and Data Science, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA


( `figueroa-lopez@wustl.edu` ). Research supported in part by the NSF Grants: DMS-2015323, DMS-1613016.

В§Department of Mathematics, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA ( `chuyi@wustl.edu` ).

В¶Department of Statistics, UIUC, IL, USA ( `yiz19@illinois.edu` ).


1


### **1 Introduction**

**1.1** **Overview**


In a financial market, a market maker (MM) provides liquidity to the market by repeatedly placing


bid and ask orders into the market and profiting from the bid-ask spread of her orders. The literature


of market making is extensive (see, e.g., the monographs of Cartea _et al._ (2015) and GuВҙeant (2016)


for references in the subject). In Subsection 1.2 below, we mention a few important works in addition


to those more closely related to our model, which are reviewed through this part. In the context of


a Limit Order Book based market, we consider an intraday high-frequency MM who quotes both


bid and ask limit orders (LO) at some prespecified discrete times and liquidates her inventory at


the end of the trading period. As is often assumed in the literature, the terminal liquidation cost


or price impact, originated from the use of a market order, is modeled as _IT_ ( _ST вҲ’_ _О»IT_ ), with _ST_


and _IT_ respectively denoting the final fundamental stock price and the MMвҖҷs inventory. Here,


_О»_ is a constant вҖҳpenalizationвҖҷ parameter. We aim to maximize the final Profit and Loss (PnL),


_WT_ + _IT_ ( _ST вҲ’_ _О»IT_ ), at the end of the trading period _T_, where _WT_ is the MMвҖҷs final wealth. Her


wealth and inventory trajectory are determined by the prices of her quotes and the number of


shares that are filled or lifted from her orders at these prices.


Modeling the number of lifted shares between consecutive actions is a key element of our frame

work. In continuous-time control problems, a common approach is to model the probability with


which an incoming market order (MO) can lift one share of the MMвҖҷs LO in the book (known as


вҖҳlifting probabilityвҖҷ). This approach, rooted in the seminal work of Ho & Stoll (1981), was popular

ized by the work of Avellaneda & Stoikov (2008) and later on by other important works including


GuВҙeant _et al._ (2013), Cartea _et al._ (2014), among others. For instance, in the seminal work of


Cartea & Jaimungal (2015), it is assumed that MOs arrive according to a Poisson process and the


lifting probability is modeled as the exponential of the negative distance of the MMвҖҷs quote from


the fundamental price times a constant.


An alternative approach is to directly model the number of lifted shares between actions via a


liquidity demand function. For instance, in their work on price pressures, Hendershott & Menkveld


(2014) assume that the liquidity demand is normally distributed with a mean parameter that is


linear in the bid and ask quoted prices and constant variance. Adrian _et al._ (2020) propose a demand


2


function that decreases linearly with the _distance_ of the quotes from a reference price, though their


demand function is further restricted to be deterministic. We refer the reader to Remark 4 below


for some further discussion about possible connections between the lifting probabilities- and the


demand function-based approaches.


Our work extends existing models of high-frequency market-making in several ways. As in


Adrian _et al._ (2020), we assume the demand to be linear in the spreads when modeling the number


of filled shares from the MMвҖҷs limit orders. However, in our case, the demand is not _deterministic_


_but stochastic_ . This means that the actual number of shares bought or sold varies over time, even if


the distances of quotes from the reference stock price stay the same. The resulting optimal place

ment strategy does not boil down to simply replacing the constant demand slope and reservation


price in the optimal strategy obtained in Adrian _et al._ (2020) with their respective average values,


but also depends on their вҖҳsecond-orderвҖҷ information and their mutual correlation. The proposed


randomization not only allows for greater flexibility and better fit to empirically observed order


flows, but also uncovers novel properties of the resulting optimal placement strategies. For instance,


it is known from Adrian _et al._ (2020) that, under a constant demand slope, the required inventory


adjustment in the optimal placement at any given time decreases with the size of the slope. We


show that the variance of the slope further reduces the strength of this adjustment. This implies


that assets with more volatile demand profiles require less strict inventory adjustments. We also


find that the optimal placement spreads (i.e., the distances between the optimal bid and ask prices


and the fundamental price) increase with the correlation between the demand slope and investorsвҖҷ


reservation price.


Another distinguishing feature of our study is that we allow a general reference stock price


process without assuming that its dynamics follow that of a martingale or some kind of parametric


specification (e.g., a Brownian ItЛҶo semimartingale). We obtain a parsimonious formula that de

scribes how the investor should adjust online her LO placements based on her ongoing forecasts


of future asset prices. Intuitively, if the MM expects future price changes to be negative, she will


reduce the ask spread and increase the bid spread, proportionally to the expected price change. The


proportionality constant depends on the model parameters in a non-trivial way, which we charac

terize precisely. This feature could also enable the investor to take advantage of sophisticated time


3


series or machine learning-based forecast procedures for asset prices and incorporate them into the


intraday market-making process.


One of the key factors that affects the performance of any placement strategy is the arrival


intensity of MOs on either side of the book. A successful placement strategy should incorporate, in


an online manner, current information about the intensity level of MOs or about imbalances in the


likelihood of buying and selling MOs. In other words, it is desirable that the placement strategy


adapts to the local behavior of MOs. In many works, the intensity of MOs is fixed a priori as


a deterministic function of time. In reality, the intensity of MO is highly random and вҖҳroughвҖҷ as


indicated by Fig. 1 below, where the averages of the indicators signaling the arrivals of buy MOs


in a rolling window are plotted. However, as shown by the same figure, the intensityвҖҷs level can be


tracked or predicted quite well in an adaptive or online manner (see Subsection 3.1.1 for details as


to how to perform this prediction) and it would be desirable that the optimal strategy incorporates


this information online.


Figure 1: Moving average of adaptive arrival probabilities of buy MO and the moving average of
the indicators signaling arrival of MOs in consecutive intervals of 1 second based on LOB MSFT
data on July 11th, 2019. The window size of the rolling moving average is 500. Note that the scale
for the blue (red) curve is shown on the left (right) side of the figure.


4


By construction, it would seem that adaptive placement strategies are not feasible since the


dynamic programming problem to find them is solved in a backward manner in time, which con

tradicts the direction of a natural learning process that proceeds forward in time. However, in this


work, we offer a natural approach to resolve this riddle. Essentially, we propose to create a вҖҳcatalogвҖҷ


of optimal strategies depending not only on the current asset price and inventory level as well as


future price forecasts but also on the recent history of MOs arrivals. In some figurative sense,


we create parallel вҖҳuniversesвҖҷ, one for each possible combination or scenario of past MOs events,


and solve the optimal placement in each of those universes. We do this by making the conditional


probabilities of arrivals of MOs dependent on the recent history of MOs. When implementing the


placements strategy, the MM observes the recent history or combinations of MOs to determine in


which вҖҳuniverseвҖҷ or scenario she is in, and places her LOs accordingly using the catalog of optimal


strategies.


To put our proposed approach to the test, we implement our optimal placement strategy using


actual LOB data. Specifically, for a given testing day, we start calibrating the model parameters


using LOB data of the past few days and then compute, backward in time, the optimal placement


strategy for each possible scenario of consecutive MOs. Next, we roll forward our optimal placement


strategy using the actual LOB events of the testing day to determine in an online manner the


scenario we are at and choose the optimal placements accordingly. We then compute the MMвҖҷs


cash flows and inventory changes using the actual flow of MOs and the LOB state. At the end of


the trading period, the MM submits a MO to liquidate its final inventory and determine the actual


cost taking into account the state of the LOB. We repeat this procedure for each day of a 1-year


time span. We find that our optimal placement yields, on average, larger revenue compared to


those where the intensity of MO is assumed to be deterministic (time-dependent). Our empirical


analysis also lends strong support to demand stochasticity: the slope coefficient has a standard


deviation that is about 200% larger than the average demand level, and a correlation of about


20% with the investorsвҖҷ reservation price. Moreover, using real LOB data we estimate the optimal


placement strategy based on a simple one-step ahead price process forecast and compare it to the


one that presumes a martingale price evolution.


**1.2** **Other relevant works**


5


Optimal market making problems have a long history. In this part we mention a few important


works that have not previously been discussed. Early contributions include those of Bradfield


(1979), who analyze the increasing price variability induced by strategies that target a flat end

of-day inventory level, and OвҖҷHara & Oldfield (1986), who consider a repeated optimal market


making problem, in which each day consists of several trading periods, and the market maker


maximizes utility over an infinite number of trading days while facing end-of-day inventory costs.


More recently, Guilbaud & Phan (2013) studied the performance of a MM submitting buy/sell LOs


at the best two bid and ask levels, while Guilbaud & Phan (2015) also considered agents that can


submit market orders. Both of these works assume a constant spread of one tick (the so-called


large-tick stocks) and price dynamics that move 1 tick at a time. Other works in the same vein


include Fodra & Phan (2015) and Fodra & Phan (2015). In all these works, there is no partial


filling and the MMвҖҷs LOs are filled in its totality when they are lifted.


Stochastic demand functions of different type have been considered in other works. As men

tioned above, both Cartea & Jaimungal (2015) and Cartea _et al._ (2014) modeled the demand during


a given time interval via filling probabilities, which depend on the distance between the quotes and


the fundamental price. While in the first of those two works, the features of these probabilities are


assumed to be deterministic, in the second work, those are assumed to be stochastic. As explained


in Remark 4 below, there is a possible connection between the linear demand assumption adopted


in this work and the fill probabilities approach, but, in general, the two models are not equivalent.


It is worth mentioning that liquidity models with stochastic features have also been considered in


other problems of algorithmic trading. For instance, Barger & Lorig (2018) and Becherer et al.


(2018) both assume stochastic price impact of trades in optimal liquidation problems.


More recent works in the area have also incorporated other model features such as price im

pact (Cartea _et al._ (2014), Barger & Lorig (2018)), model ambiguity (Cartea & Jaimungal (2015),


NystrВЁom et al. (2014)), and latency (Cartea _et al._ (2021), Gao & Wang (2020)). More recently,


Bergault & GuВҙeant (2021) introduce a different modeling approach to incorporate different trans

action sizes and the possibility for the MM to respond to requests with different sizes using marked


point processes.


6


**1.3** **Outline of the paper**


The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we present the model setup and our


assumptions together with the Bellman equation for our problem and its explicit solutions. In


Section 3, we assess the performance of our market-making strategy against real LOB data. We


finish with a conclusion section. We defer the proofs to an appendix section.

### **2 A Finite-Horizon Optimal Control Problem for a Market Maker**


In this section, we introduce the model along with the relevant notation and its assumptions. Then,


by using the Dynamic Programming Principle (DPP), we propose an adaptive trading strategy and


by using the verification theorem, it is shown that, indeed, the solution is optimal. Finally, its


admissibility is investigated. All the proofs of this section will be deferred to Appendix A.


**2.1** **The Model and its Assumptions**


We assume that a high-frequency (HF) Market Maker (MM) places simultaneously buy and sell


LOs at some preset discrete times 0 = _t_ 0 _< t_ 1 _< . . . < tN_, where _tN < tN_ +1 := _T_ and hereafter _T_


represents the terminal time of the trading. All the random variables used in the model are defined


on the same probability space (в„Ұ _, F,_ P) equipped with an information filtration _{Ft}tвҲҲT_, where

_T_ = _{t_ 0 _, t_ 1 _, . . ., tN_ +1 _}_ . For _k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_, let 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ +1 [(] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ +1 [) be Bernoulli random]


variables indicating whether at least one buy (sell) MO arrived during the time period [ _tk, tk_ +1),


i.e.,


1 [+]
_tk_ +1 [=] [ 1] _{_ At least one buy MO arrives during [ _tk,tk_ +1) _}_ _[,]_

(1)
1 _[вҲ’]_
_tk_ +1 [=] [ 1] _{_ At least one sell MO arrives during [ _tk,tk_ +1) _}_ _[.]_


Let _П–_ be a fixed positive integer and define the lag- _П–_ recent history of MOs at time _tk_ as


_**e**_ _tk_ = ( 1 [+] _tk_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’П–_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [)] _[ вҲҲ{]_ [0] _[,]_ [ 1] _[}]_ [2] _[П–][.]_ (2)


We often use the shorthand notation _**e**_ _tk_ = ( 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [). Above, we are assuming that] _[ t]_ [0][ = 0]


is the beginning of the MMвҖҷs trading and that there is a sufficiently large вҖңburn-outвҖқ period prior


to it. In particular, the indicators (1) are also defined for _k_ = 0 _, вҲ’_ 1 _, . . ._ by setting some times


7


0 _> tвҲ’_ 1 _> tвҲ’_ 2 _> . . ._ before the beginning of the trading at time 0. Thus, for instance, 1 _[Вұ]_ _t_ 0 [is 1 if]

at least one MO arrived during the time period ( _tвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 0] and _**e**_ _t_ 0 = ( 1 _[Вұ]_ _t_ 0 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _вҲ’_ 1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _вҲ’П–_ +1 [) represents]


the indicators of MOs in the _П–_ time periods previous to 0. For future reference, let us introduce


some notation. For any adapted process _u_ = _{utk_ _}kвүҘ_ 0, we set


_u_ [0] _tk_ +1 [:=][ E][ пҝҪ] _[u][t]_ _k_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_        - _,_



Г® _Вұ_ Гі
_u_ _[i]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [:=][ E] _utk_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 _tk_ +1 [=] _[ i]_ _,_ _i вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _},_

_u_ _[i,j]_ _tk_ +1 [:=][ E] Г® _utk_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 + _tk_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ j]_ Гі _,_ _i, j вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _},_



(3)



which can be considered some sort of one-step ahead forecasts of _u_ . Note that all these processes


are adapted to the information process _{Ft}tвҲҲT_ .


As mentioned before, at each time _tk_, the MM will place simultaneously a buy and a sell LO. Her


sell LO will be submitted with an execution price of _atk_, while her buy LO will have an execution


price of _btk_ . The volume of these orders is typically set to be the average volume of submitted


LO in the stock of interest. Both _atk_ and _btk_ are the MMвҖҷs вҖҳcontrolsвҖҷ. It will be important to


reparameterize the controls relative to a reference price _Stk_ associated with the stock such as the


midprice or other related proxy. The MMвҖҷs buy (sell) LOs submitted at time _tk_ ( _k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_ )


will be matched against the sell (buy) MOs submitted during the period [ _tk, tk_ +1) as follows. Let


us first consider the ask side. If _Stk_ denotes the reference or fundamental price of the stock at time

_tk_ and the MMвҖҷs ask LO is placed _L_ [+] _tk_ [above] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [(i.e.,] _[ a][t]_ _k_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [), then the total number of]

shares from the MM that are sold during [ _tk, tk_ +1) is denoted by _Q_ [+] _tk_ +1 [and is given by]


_Q_ [+] _tk_ +1 [:=] [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1пҝҪ( _Stk_ + _p_ + _tk_ +1 [)] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[S][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [)][пҝҪ] [=] [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [)] _[,]_ (4)


where _p_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ +1 [are nonnegative random variables. Broadly (but not literally)] _[ p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [is]

related to the maximum depth that buy MOs walk into the LOB during [ _tk, tk_ +1) and _c_ [+] _tk_ +1 [is such]

that _c_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [indicates the executed volume of a sell LO if this were placed at the same level as]

the reference price (that is, if _L_ [+] _tk_ [= 0). We can also interpret] _[ p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [as the buyersвҖҷ reservation price]


in the market; i.e., the highest price that вҖҳbuyersвҖҷ in the market are willing to pay for the stock.


These interpretations should not be taken literally as explained in points 2-4 of Remark 1 below.


8


We analogously define the corresponding quantities for the bid side of the book. That is,


provided that at least one sell MO arrives during the time interval [ _tk, tk_ +1), _Q_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [will be the]


executed volume of the MMвҖҷs buy LO placed at time _tk_ at the price level _btk_ . Similarly to _atk_, we

reparameterize _btk_ in terms of the distance _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [below the reference price] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [so that] _[ b][t]_ _k_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [.]

Similarly to (4), _Q_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [is modeled as]


_Q_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [:=] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1пҝҪ( _Stk вҲ’_ _LвҲ’tk_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[S][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][пҝҪ] [=] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)] _[,]_ (5)


where _p_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ +1 [and] _[ c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ +1 [has analogous interpretations as] _[ p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [and] _[ c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [. Above,]

both _L_ [+] _tk_ [and] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [are the MM вҖҳcontrolsвҖҷ, while the reference price] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [is exogenously determined]

by market conditions independently from the MM actions. The form of the function of _Q_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [is]


illustrated in Figure 2.


**Remark 1.** _Some comments are in order to clarify our model assumptions_ (4) _-_ (5) _and contrast to_


_earlier work:_


_1. As mentioned in the introduction, in a continuous-time setting, Adrian_ et al. _(2020) con-_


_sidered demand functions similar to_ (4) _-_ (5) _, but with c and p being known deterministic_


_constants. Then, the actual numbers of shares bought or sold over_ [ _tk, tk_ +1) _depend only on_


_the spreads L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[. Introducing randomness is more realistic since the actual demand during]_


[ _tk, tk_ +1] _, not only depend on the spreads of the quotes, but also on the initial state of the_


_book, which is hard to summarize and incorporate given its high-dimensionality and variabil-_


_ity, and on the flow of orders during the interval, which is extremely unpredictable at time_


_tk. One may argue that for the purposes of market making all what matters in the average_


_demand during the given trading period_ [0 _, T_ ] _. That is, all what we need is to take the de-_


_terministic demand functions_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [)] _[ or]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Вұ]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [)] _[, where][ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][,][ Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ][,][ Вө]_ _cp_ _[Вұ]_


_are the average values of c, p, and cp over_ [0 _, T_ ] _, respectively. As explained in the items 1_


_and 4 of page 18 and 19 (see formulas_ (24) _and_ (26) _therein), the randomness of c and the_


_correlation between c and p play key roles in the optimal MM strategy. This is further verified_


_in our numerical/empirical Section 3 (see Tables 6-7 therein)._


9


_2. As mentioned above, the actual demand during_ [ _tk, tk_ +1) _corresponding to placements L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_


_would depend on the shape of the book at time tk as well as the volume and timing of MMs_


_and the arrival of other LOs and cancellations during that interval._ _Figure 3 shows the_


_approximate demand during a prototypical time interval where at least one MM order arrived_


_(see Subsection 3.1.2 for details about how to estimate such a demand). Then, in a nutshell,_


_c_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 _[and][ p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[are chosen so that the resulting linear model][ c]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ is close to]_


_the вҖҳactualвҖҷ demand. In other words,_ (4) _-_ (5) _are viewed as the вҖҳbestвҖҷ linear fit for the actual_


_demand during a given time period._


_3. One of the obvious drawbacks of_ (4) _-_ (5) _is that, in principle, we are assuming the possibility_


_of negative demands (negative number of units sold or bough), which is obviously not realistic._


_But, this would happen only if the LO quotes L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[were large compare to][ S][t]_ _k_ _[. This assumption]_


_would then be an issue if the resulting optimal placements were, at times, far away from the_


_reference price, since, in that case, the optimal strategy may be favoring or looking for negative_


_demands, which in reality are not feasible. In the context of Figure 3, this would be the case_


_if the optimal placements were more than about 6 ticks away from Stk that is when the linear_


_demand functions start to produce negative values. However, our empirical implementation_


_in Section 3 shows us that the resulting optimal placements are almost never far away from_


_the reference price (almost always less than or equal to 4 ticks away) and, thus, the linear_


_demand assumption is not an issue in practice._


_4. Above it was mentioned that p_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[is connected to the maximum depth that the buy MOs walk]_


_into the LOB during_ [ _tk, tk_ +1) _. This is because, under this interpretation, we obviously have_


_that if L_ [+] _tk_ _[> p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, then the corresponding demand should be]_ [ 0] _[. However, as mentioned above,]_

_it is more accurate to see p_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[as the value for which][ c]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ provides a good fit]_

_for the demand when L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 _[is small.]_


Next we introduce the main assumptions on the distribution of the random variables 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_

_c_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [, and] _[ p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [.]


**Assumption 1.** _For k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}, let Gtk_ +1 := _Пғ_ ( _Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[. Then,]_


(i) ( _c_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)] _[ and]_ [ (] _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ are conditionally independent given][ G][t]_ _k_ +1 _[.]_


10


Number of filled shares

|p+<br>tk+1<br>pвҲ’<br>tk+1|Q+<br>QвҲ’ tk+1<br>tk+1<br>P|
|---|---|
|_p_+<br>_tk_+1<br>_pвҲ’_<br>_tk_+1||
|_p_+<br>_tk_+1<br>_pвҲ’_<br>_tk_+1|_QвҲ’_<br>_tk_+1|
||_Stk_<br>_Stk_ +_ p_+<br>_tk_+<br>_Stk вҲ’pвҲ’_<br>_tk_+1<br>_btk_<br>_atk_<br><br>|



Figure 2: _Stk вҲ’_ _p_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [is the lowest price that a sell market order can attain, and] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [is the]
highest price that a buy market order can attain during the time interval [ _tk, tk_ +1). The number of
filled shares increase as the market maker places limit orders closer to the fundamental price _Stk_ .


Figure 3: **Prototypical Plot of the Actual Demand vs. Estimated Linear Demand over**
**Time Interval** [ _tk, tk_ +1) **.**


(ii) _The conditional distribution of_ ( _c_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)] _[ given][ G][t]_ _k_ +1 _[is a measurable function depending]_

_solely on_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[, and it does not depend on][ k][.]_


(iii) _The conditional distribution of_ ( _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ given][ G][t]_ _k_ +1 _[is a measurable function depending]_

_solely of_ 1 _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 _[that does not depend on][ k][.]_


(iv) _Let П– be the fixed number defined in Eq._ (2) _and define Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ [=] _[ Пғ]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [)] _[ вҠӮF][t]_ _k_ _[. Then, for some]_

_d вҲҲ_ N _, we assume the existence of functions g_ : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ [2] _[П–]_ _вҶ’_ R _[d]_ _and f, f_ _[Вұ]_ : R _[d]_ _вҶ’_ [0 _,_ 1] _such_


_that for all k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _,_ 2 _, . . ., N_ _},_


_ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [:=] [ P] [(] [1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) =] [ P] [(] [1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[|H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _k_ [) =] _[ f]_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [))] _[,]_

(6)
_ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) := P ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) =] [ P] [(] [1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _k_ [) =] _[ f]_ [(] _[g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [))] _[.]_


11


By virtue of conditions (ii) and (iii) above, for each _m, n вҲҲ_ N, there exist functions _h_ [+] _m,n_ [:]

_{_ 0 _,_ 1 _} вҶ’_ R and _h_ _[вҲ’]_ _m,n_ [:] _[ {]_ [0] _[,]_ [ 1] _[} вҶ’]_ [R][ such that]




 - - E ( _c_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [)] _[m]_ [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[n]_ [пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ] _[G][t]_ _k_ +1 = E ( _c_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [)] _[m]_ [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[n]_ [пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ] [1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1




= _h_ _[Вұ]_ _m,n_ [(] [1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [)] _[,]_ (7)



for any _k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}_ . The optimal placement strategy will depend on the following nonrandom


quantities:


                     -                      _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ :=] _[ h]_ _m,n_ _[Вұ]_ [(1) =][ E] ( _c_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [)] _[m]_ [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[n]_ [пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ] [1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _._ (8)


When _m_ or _n_ are 0, we simply write _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ [ :=] _[ Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ [0][ and] _[ Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ][n]_ [ :=] _[ Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [0] _p_ _[n]_ [, and omit the exponents if] _[ m]_


and/or _n_ are 1. Note also that


             -             _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 0) := P 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0] пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ = _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[,]_


             -             _ПҖtk_ +1(0 _,_ 1) := P 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ = _ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[,]_ (9)


             -             _ПҖtk_ +1(0 _,_ 0) := P 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0] пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ = 1 _вҲ’_ _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [+] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[,]_


and, thus, they all satisfy representations similar to (6) and, in particular, can be written as


functions of _g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ ).


**Remark 2.** _It is important to stress the relevance of the assumption given by Eq._ (6) _. In Adrian_


et al. _(2020) and our earlier preprint Capponi_ et al. _(2021), it is assumed that the probabilities_


_ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[and][ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ are deterministic smooth functions of time, fixed throughout the trading day.]_


_In that case, for implementation purposes, these functions have to be estimated at the beginning_


_of the trading day from, for instance, historical data or other type of preliminary market analysis,_


_but once they are chosen, they cannot be changed through the trading day. In the present work_


_these probabilities are allowed to вҖҳreactвҖҷ to the вҖҳrecentвҖҷ history of buy/sell market orders_ _**e**_ _tk_ =

( 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [)] _[, through a chosen function][ g][. The purpose of the function][ g][ is two-fold: it]_


_summarizes the information contained in_ _**e**_ _tk and it allows us to alleviate the computational burden_


_by reducing the dimension of past information. This novelty enables the MM to adapt or adjust_


_her trading strategy to the recently observed вҖңtradesвҖқ in the market, which as shown empirically in_


_Section 3.1, can provide a good forecast for the likelihood of a MO arriving on a given interval in_


12


_either side of the book. In our framework, the hyperparameter functions f_ _[Вұ]_ _and f in Eq,_ (6) _will_


_then have to be calibrated at the beginning of the trading day based on historical data. We can think_


_of each value of g as a possible вҖҳscenarioвҖҷ of the recent MOs history. At the beginning of the trading_


_day, we calibrate the probabilities ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[and][ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ for each possible scenario. This will allow]_


_us to choose the best possible placement strategy for each possible scenario. We give further details_


_in Subsection 3.1._


**Remark 3.** _Under our conditions stated in Assumption 1, the average number of lifted shares_


_from the MM will depend on the constants Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _cp_ _[and][ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ _[and the probabilities (6). In particular,]_

_these will be adapted to the recent history of MOs,_ _**e**_ _tk_ = ( 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [)] _[, at each time][ t][k][.]_


_For instance, if the MM placed her sell LO at the the same level as the reference price at time tk_

_(L_ [+] _tk_ [= 0] _[), she would expect that][ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] _[shares of her order would be sold. In general, if][ L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [=] _[ i]_

_ticks away from the reference price Stk_ _, she would expect ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Вұ]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[iВө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[ shares of her LO to be]_


_lifted during_ ( _tk, tk_ +1] _. Indeed, from the formula (4) and notations (6)-(8),_




   пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_




 E _Q_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1




  -   -   - _Вұ_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ = E 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [E] _c_ [+] _tk_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[i]_ [)] пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 _tk_ +1




              -               = E 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [[] _[h]_ _cp_ _[Вұ]_ [(] [1] [+] _tk_ +1 [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[ih]_ [1] _[,]_ [0][(] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)]] пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ = _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Вұ]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[iВө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[.]_


**Remark 4.** _There is a possible connection between the approach based on exponential lifting prob-_


_abilities (cf. Cartea & Jaimungal (2015)) and that based on linear demand functions. Specifically,_


_if О»_ _[Вұ]_ _is the arrival intensity of MOвҖҷs and the lifting probability is set to be_ exp( _вҲ’Оә_ _[Вұ]_ _L_ _[Вұ]_ ) _, where L_ _[Вұ]_


_is the distance between the LO quote and the fundamental price, then, during a time span of_ вҲҶ _, we_


_expect that_ вҲҶ _О»_ _[Вұ]_ exp( _вҲ’Оә_ _[Вұ]_ _L_ _[Вұ]_ ) _times a MO will lift a LO placed at distance L_ _[Вұ]_ _. Since in this stream_


_of literature, it is typically assumed that only вҖҳoneвҖҷ share of the order is lifted at a time, when L_ _[Вұ]_


_is small (as it is commonly the case), the expected number of shares filled during a time span_ вҲҶ _is_


_approximately equal to_ вҲҶ _О»_ _[Вұ]_ _вҲ’_ вҲҶ _О»_ _[Вұ]_ _Оә_ _[Вұ]_ _L_ _[Вұ]_ _, which is precisely linear in L_ _[Вұ]_ _. Since we are allowing_


_actions to take place only at discrete times, we believe that the modeling based on stochastic linear_


_demand functions provides greater flexibility._


As in Cartea _et al._ (2015), Adrian _et al._ (2020), and others, for the performance criterion of our


placement strategy, we use _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [, where] _[ W][t]_ [ and] _[ I][t]_ [ respectively represent the MMвҖҷs]


13


cash holding and stock inventory at time _t_, and _О»_ is a constant penalization term. Note that at


time _T_ = _tN_ +1, the last two terms can be rewritten as, _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [=] _[ I][T]_ [ (] _[S][T][ вҲ’]_ _[О»I][T]_ [ ), which may be]


interpreted as the MMвҖҷs end-of-the-day cash flow incurred when liquidating her inventory _IT_ using


a MO. Overall, the latter interpretation seems to be a good approximation of reality as shown by


our empirical analysis of Section 3.2 (compare Tables 2 and 3) [1] . The optimal control problem then


consists of finding the adapted placement positions _L_ _[Вұ]_ = ( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _t_ 0 _[, L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ 1 _[, . . ., L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _N_ [) that maximize]


E[ _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] []] _[.]_ (10)


For future reference, note that, in light of Eqs. (4) and (5), we have, for _k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}_,


_Itk_ +1 = _Itk вҲ’_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [) +] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)] _[,]_ (11)

_Wtk_ +1 = _Wtk_ + ( _Stk_ + _L_ [+] _tk_ [)] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[S][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)] _[.]_ (12)


**2.2** **Optimal Placement Strategy for a Martingale Midprice Process**


For ease of exposition and to establish the main ideas, in this subsection we first present the solution


of the optimal placement problem under the assumption that the reference price process _{Stk_ _}kвүҘ_ 0


is a martingale. The case of a general price process is presented in the following subsection. The


results herein will enable us to give a more tractable presentation of the general case. All the proofs


in this subsection are deferred to Appendix A.1.


In order to proceed, we need to make an additional assumption on the distribution of the


increments of the price process.


**Assumption 2.** (i) _For any k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}, the price increments Stk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stk and the random_

_vector_ ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ + [)] _[ are conditionally independent given][ F][t]_ _k_ _[, and]_ [ (ii)] _[ {][S][t]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_


_Stk_ _}k_ =0 _,...,N is a martingale, i.e.,_ E[ _Stk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stk_ _|Ftk_ ] = 0 _, for any k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_ _._


We now specify when a strategy will be admissible. We specify two types of admissibility.


1Related to this, some recent works have proposed equilibrium models to deduce the price impact of a market
order (see, e.g., Cetin & Waelbroeck (2023)). See also Bhattacharya & Saar (2021) for further insights about the
relation between price impact and the depth of the book or the arrival frequencies of trades.


14


**Definition 1.** _For any k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}, a strategy_ ( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[, . . ., L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _N_ [)] _[ running from time][ t][k][ to time]_

_tN is said to be admissible if, for every j вүҘ_ _k, L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[вҲҲF][t]_ _j_ _[. If, in addition, we have][ L]_ [+] _tj_ [+] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[>]_ [ 0] _[,]_


_for all j вүҘ_ _k, we say that the strategy is strictly admissible. The set of all (strictly) admissible_


_strategies running from time tk to time tN is denoted by (A_ [ВҜ] _tk,tN ) Atk,tN ._


Note that the strict admissibility condition _L_ [+] _tj_ [+] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[>]_ [ 0 is equivalent to] _[ a][t]_ _j_ _[> b][t]_ _j_ [, i.e., the]

selling price _atj_ = _Stj_ + _L_ [+] _tj_ [of the MM is higher than her buying price] _[ b][t]_ _j_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [at all future]

times. We donвҖҷt require that _L_ [+] and _L_ _[вҲ’]_ are nonnegative because _Stk_ is not necessarily seen as the

midprice _St_ _[mid]_ _k_, but rather as the вҖҳfundamentalвҖҷ price of the stock. In practice, the placement will


always be set at the tick right above (below) the midprice if _atk_ ( _btk_ ) is found to be below (above)

_St_ _[mid]_ _k_ .


In accordance to performance criterion (10), we can then write the value function at time _tk_ as


_Vtk_ := sup E[ _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ ] _,_ _k_ = 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N._ (13)
( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,...,L]_ _tN_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_ _[,t]_ _N_


To solve the optimal control problem, we first assume that _Vtk_ follows the ansatz


_Vtk_ = _Wtk_ + _Stk_ _Itk_ + _Оұtk_ _It_ [2] _k_ [+] _[ h][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ g][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ (14)


where _Оұtk_ _, htk_ _, gtk_ are some _Ftk_ -adapted real-valued random variables to be determined from the


dynamical programming principle (see Theorem 1 below). The ansatz is motivated by the specific


form of the performance criterion in (10) and the dynamic principle given in Eq. (15) below.


The Dynamic Programming Principle (see, e.g., HernВҙandez-Lerma & Lasserre (1996) and BВЁauerle


& Rieder (2011)) associated with (13) can then be written as


                    -                    _Vtk_ = sup E _Vtk_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ _k_ = 0 _, . . ., N,_ (15)
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_


15


where we set _VT_ := _VtN_ +1 := _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [and] _[ A][t]_ _k_ [consists of all] _[ L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ [. Using the ansatz]


(14), we can rewritten (15) as


_Wtk_ + _Оұtk_ _It_ [2] _k_ [+] _[ S][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ h][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ g][t]_ _k_

             -             - (16)
= sup E _Wtk_ +1 + _Оұtk_ +1 _It_ [2] _k_ +1 [+] _[ S][t]_ _k_ +1 _[I][t]_ _k_ +1 [+] _[ h][t]_ _k_ +1 _[I][t]_ _k_ +1 [+] _[ g][t]_ _k_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _._
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_


By plugging the recursions (11)-(12) in (16), we will be able to find a candidate for the optimal


placement strategy (Theorem 1 and Corollary 3 below). It is until Theorem 4 when we shall verify


that our candidate is indeed the solutions to our original optimal control problem (13). In Section


2.4, we study the strict admissibility of the optimal strategy.


To write explicit formulas for the optimal placement strategy, we introduce the following ter

minology:


_ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ [:=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ“]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)] _[,]_



_ПҲt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [:=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)][2] _[,]_

_Оіtk_ := Г„ _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Вө]_ _c_ [+] ГӨ2 _вҲ’_ _ПҒ_ [+] _tk_ _[ПҒ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _,_
_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



(17)



where above _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [and] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [are defined using the notation (3). We will prove below that the]

optimal spreads for the ask and bid side can be written as _L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ := (1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [and]

_Lt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _вҲ’_ [(1)] _A_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [(2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [with the coefficients:]


(1) _Вұ_ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҒ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_
_Atk_ [:=] _,_
_Оіtk_



(2) _Вұ_ _h_ [1] _tk_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҒ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_
_Atk_ [:=] _,_
2 _Оіtk_



(3) _AВұtk_ [:=] _ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_
2 _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][Оі]_ _tk_











(18)



_ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1




- - _ПҲt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ“]_
_Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _p_ + 2 _ПҖt_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)][2]



+ _ПҲt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_
2 _ПҖt_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“][Оі]_ _tk_











_ПҖt_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ +1




- - _ПҲt_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Вұ]_
_Вө_ _[вҲ“]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ“]_ _c_ [2] _p_ + 2 _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [)][2]



_,_



where we again used (3) to define _h_ [1] _tk_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [. We first show that the maximization problem in (16) is]


indeed well-posed.


16


**Theorem 1.** _Under the Assumptions 1 and 2, the following statements hold:_


(i) _There exist coefficients Оұtk_ _, htk_ _, and gtk that solve_ (16) _for k_ = 0 _, . . ., N with dynamics_


(11) _-_ (12) _and terminal conditions ОұtN_ +1 = _вҲ’О» and htN_ +1 = _gtN_ +1 = 0 _._


(ii) _For k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_ + 1 _, the coefficients Оұtk_ _, htk_ _, and gtk in_ (i) _are Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ _[-measurable random]_

_variables, where recall from Assumption 1 that Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ [=] _[ Пғ]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [) =] _[ Пғ]_ [(] [1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [)] _[ вҠӮ]_


_Ftk_ _._


(iii) _For k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_ _, the coefficients of_ (i) _can be computed recursively by the equations:_



(1) _AОҙtk_








  _Оұtk_ = _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [+] _ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



пҝҪпҝҪ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ пҝҪпҝҪ(1) _AОҙtk_ пҝҪ2 + 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_



+ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



(1) _A_ + _tk_



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[,]_



(1) _AОҙtk_ Г„(2) _AОҙtk_ [+ (] _[Оҙ]_



(3) _AОҙtk_ [) +]



(3) _AОҙtk_ [)] ГӨ + 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ пҝҪ( _Оҙ_




  _htk_ = _h_ [0] _tk_ +1 [+] _ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_





 -  2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_



(19)


(2) _AОҙtk_ 

(20)




_вҲ’_ 2( _ОҙОұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [)] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_ [+ (] _[Оҙ]_



(1) _AОҙtk_ [)] - _Вө_ _[Оҙ]_ _cp_ [+ (] _[Оҙh]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [)] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ - [пҝҪ]




         
_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



(1) _A_ + _tk_







(1) _A_ + _tk_ _ВөВө_ _[вҲ’]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_



(3) _AвҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_







(2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ + _tk_



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _ВөВө_ [+] _cp_ [+] _c_ _вҲ’_



_,_



(2) _AвҲ’tk_




- _вҲ’_ (1) _AвҲ’tk_








+



_and_




- 
_ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1 ( _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [)(]
_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_




  _gtk_ = _gt_ [0] _k_ +1 [+]



(3) _AОҙtk_ [+ (] _[Оҙ]_



(2) _AОҙtk_ [))][2][ +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оҙh]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [)] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_



+ ( _Вө_ _[Оҙ]_ _cp_ [+ (] _[Оҙh]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [)] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [)(] (3) _AОҙtk_ [+ (] _[Оҙ]_



(2) _AОҙtk_ [))] - (21)




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ пҝҪ((2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ + _tk_ [)(] (3) _AвҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [)]



(3) _A_ + _tk_ [) +] _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _cp_
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+]




_вҲ’_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] ((3) _AвҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_
_Вө_ [+] _c_



_cp_

_вҲ’_ _[Вө]_ [+] (
_Вө_ [+] _c_



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ ((2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ (
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_




_,_



_where we used the notation_ (3) _,_ (17) _, and_ (18) _._


17


Before finding the optimal controls of (15), we state an important preliminary result that will


also be needed to show the verification theorem and the strict admissibility of the optimal controls.


This result is deceivable simple, though its proof is rather intricate.


**Lemma 2.** _The random variables {Оұtk_ _}kвүҘ_ 0 _defined in Eqs. (19) are such that_


_Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[< Оұ][t]_ _k_ _[<]_ [ 0] _[,]_ _for any k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _},_


_where above {Оұt_ [0] _k_ _[}][k][вүҘ]_ [0] _[is computed from][ {][Оұ][t]_ _k_ _[}][k][вүҘ]_ [0] _[using]_ [ (3)] _[.]_


We are now ready to find the optimal controls of (15) under the ansatz (14). Most of its proof


is embedded into the proof of Theorem 1 but due to its importance it is stated separately.


**Corollary 3.** _The optimal placements that maximize the right-hand side of the Eq. (15) under the_


_ansatz_ (14) _are given by_



_L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ =



(1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



(2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ + _tk_ _[,]_



_L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _вҲ’_



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [+]



(22)
(3) _AвҲ’tk_ _[,]_



_where the coefficients above are given as in_ (18) _._


In light of the previous result, the optimal placement strategy takes the form:



_a_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+]

_b_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+]



(1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]


(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



(2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]

(2) _AвҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(3) _A_ + _tk_ _[,]_

(23)
(3) _AвҲ’tk_ _[.]_



In the preprint Capponi _et al._ (2021), an extensive analysis of the properties of the optimal strategy


was carried out in the case that the arrival intensity of MOs is deterministic rather than adaptive


as in our setting (see Remark 2). One of the main conclusions therein is that the randomness of _c_


and _p_ are not just a mathematical вҖҳartifactвҖҷ for the sake of generalization, but play an important


role in the behavior of the optimal placement strategy. Many of the conclusions therein transfer to


our setting, but, for the sake of space, we just highlight some of the most important here:


1. The second term in (23) is fundamental as it can be interpreted as the inventory adjustment


to the optimal strategy. In the case of _ПҖ_ (1 _,_ 1) = 0 (which is met to a good degree when


18


trading frequency is high enough), the coefficient [(1)] _A_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [simplifies as follows:]


(1) _AВұtk_ [=] _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 = _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _._ (24)
_Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] 1 _вҲ’_ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [Var(] _[c]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ [)] _[/Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_


Due to Lemma 2, the coefficient above is negative, which means that when the inventory is


positive (negative), the ask and bid levels decrease (increase) to stimulate selling (buying) of


stock and, hence, bring inventory closer to 0. The larger the level of the slope _c_, the smaller


the effect of inventory in the optimal placement strategy. However, with the same average


value of _c_, stocks with more variable _c_ require smaller inventory adjustment.


2. In the case of _ПҖ_ (1 _,_ 1) _Мё_ = 0, we still have that (1) _AВұtk_ _[<]_ [ 0.] Indeed, recalling (17)-(18) and

_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ [0, and applying (A-12), the numerator of][ (1)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[<]_ [ 0 satisfies:]


_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҒ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ“]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)][2]

_вүҘ_ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ“]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ“]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)][2]


= _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [(] _[Вө][вҲ“]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ“]_ [)][2][)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[>]_ [ 0] _[.]_


Since the denominator _Оіtk <_ 0 (cf. (A-13)), we conclude that [(1)] _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[<]_ [ 0.]


3. Again, assuming that _ПҖ_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүЎ_ 0, we can further write:



_a_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+] _Вө_ [+] _c_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _Itk_ + [1]
_Вө_ [+] _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] 2

_b_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+] _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _Itk_ + [1]
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] 2



_Вө_ [+] _c_ _[h]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 + [1]
_Вө_ [+] _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] 2

_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _вҲ’_ [1]
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] 2



_Вө_ [+] _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _p_
_,_
_Вө_ [+] _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2]

_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _p_
_._
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2]



(25)



Computationally, it can be shown that _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [and] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [are close to 0 for most of the time]


interval [0 _, T_ ] and it is only for _tk_ +1 close to _T_, that their values are significantly different

from 0 (especially, _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [). Then, we have the approximations:]




[1] _Вө_ [+] _cp_ = _Stk_ + _[Вө]_ _p_ [+] Cov( _c_ [+] _tk_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ [)]

2 _Вө_ [+] _c_ 2 [+] 2 _Вө_ [+] _c_

[1] _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _cp_ = _Stk вҲ’_ _[Вө]_ _p_ _[вҲ’]_ Cov( _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ [)]

2 _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ 2 _[вҲ’]_ 2 _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_



_a_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ _[вүҲ]_ _[S][t]_ _k_ [+] [1]



_,_
2 _Вө_ [+] _c_



(26)



_b_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ _[вүҲ]_ _[S][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [1]



_._
2 _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_



19


The correlation between _c_ and _p_ now plays a key role in the optimal placements. When _c_ and


_p_ are uncorrelated (such as when _c_ or _p_ are deterministic), the optimal placements are near


the midpoint between _Stk_ and the average reservation price _Stk Вұ Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _p_ [for most of the time.]


However, when the correlation between _c_ and _p_ is positive, instead of placing LOs around


_Stk Вұ Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _p_ _[/]_ [2, the HFM will tend to go deeper into the book. Roughly, a larger realization of]


_c_ also implies a large value of _p_, resulting in a larger demand function and, hence, greater


opportunity for the MM to obtain better prices for her filled LOs.


4. Under the condition _ПҖ_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүЎ_ 0 and certain market symmetry and independence conditions,


we can strengthen the conclusions of the previous item. Specifically, if we assume that _ПҖ_ [+] =


_ПҖ_ _[вҲ’]_, _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _cp_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ]_ [,] _[ Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _p_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [2] _[Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ]_ [,] _[ Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[m]_ [ =] _[ Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ _[m]_ [ =:] _[ Вө][c][m]_ [ and] _[ Вө]_ _p_ [+] _[m]_ [ =] _[ Вө][вҲ’]_ _p_ _[m]_ [ =:] _[ Вө][p][m]_ [, when] _[ m]_ [ = 1] _[,]_ [ 2,]

and _Оұ_ [1+] = _Оұ_ [1] _[вҲ’]_ (see Lemma 8 and the proof of Corollary 7 for sufficient conditions for the


latter to hold), then we have that _h_ [1] _tk_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[вүЎ]_ [0 and (25) uncovers the existence of a critical]


inventory level that dictates the relation of the optimal placements relative to the nominal




_[p]_

2 [and] _[ b]_ _t_ [0] _k_ [:=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ 2 _[p]_



. Then, we have:
2 _Вөc_



values _a_ [0] _tk_ [:=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+] _[Вө]_ 2 _[p]_




_[p]_

_[Вө][c]_ [2] _[Вө][p]_
2 [. Specifically, let] _[ I]_ [0][ :=]




   - When _Itk_ = _I_ [0] ( _Itk_ = _вҲ’I_ [0] ), the optimal ask (bid) quote is at the level _Stk_ + _Вөp/_ 2


( _Stk вҲ’_ _Вөp/_ 2);


    - When the inventory level _Itk вҲҲ_ (0 _, I_ [0] ) ( _Itk вҲҲ_ ( _вҲ’I_ [0] _,_ 0)), the optimal ask (bid) quote is


deeper in the LOB relative to the levels _Stk_ + _Вөp/_ 2 ( _Stk вҲ’_ _Вөp/_ 2);


    - When the inventory level _Itk > I_ [0] ( _Itk < вҲ’I_ [0] ), the optimal strategy is to place the


ask (bid) quote closer to _Stk_ than to _Stk_ + _Вөp/_ 2 ( _Stk вҲ’_ _Вөp/_ 2), and the bid (ask) quote


farther from _Stk_ than from _Stk вҲ’_ _Вөp/_ 2 ( _Stk_ + _Вөp/_ 2) into the LOB.


We next prove a verification theorem for the optimal placements given in Eq. (23). Its proof is


given in Appendix A.1.


**Theorem 4.** _The optimal value function Vtk of the control problem (13) is given by_


_Vtk_ = _v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wtk_ _, Itk_ ) _,_


_where, for tk вҲҲT,_


_v_ ( _tk, s,_ w _, i_ ) = w + _Оұtk_ _i_ [2] + _si_ + _htk_ _i_ + _gtk_ _,_


20


_with Оұtk_ _, htk and gtk given as in Theorem 1. Furthermore, the optimal controls are given by L_ _[Вұ]_ _._ _[,][вҲ—]_


_as defined in (22)._


**2.3** **Optimal Placement Strategy for a General Midprice Process**


The objective of this subsection is to extend our previous results to the case when the midprice


process is a general stochastic process without relying on a martingale assumption. As we will see


below, in that case, the optimal placement strategy will also depend on the forecasts of future price


changes:


вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _j_ [:=][ E][(] _[S][t]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[S][t]_ _j_ _[|F][t]_ _k_ [)] _[,]_ _j вүҘ_ _k._ (27)


We can see вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _j_ [as the MMвҖҷs forecast of the price change during the time interval [] _[t][j][, t][j]_ [+1][],] _[ j][ вүҘ]_ _[k]_ [,]


as seen at time _tk_ . We first need to modify our Assumption 2 as follows:


**Assumption 3.** _For any k_ = 1 _,_ 2 _, . . ., N_ _, {Stj_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stj_ _}j_ = _k,...,N and_ ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)]


_are conditionally independent given Ftk_ _._


To solve the optimization problem (15), we use an ansatz for the value function similar to that


in the previous subsection:


_Vtk_ := _Wtk_ + _Stk_ _Itk_ + _Оұtk_ _It_ [2] _k_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[g][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ (28)


where _Оұtk_, [пҝҪ] _htk_, and пҝҪ _gtk_ are _Ftk_ -adapted real-valued random variables to be determined from the


dynamical programming principle (15). As one may suspect from the notation above, _Оұtk_ will turn

out to be the same as before: an _Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ [-measurable random variable determined by the recursive]

relation (19). However, [пҝҪ] _htk_ will be different (in fact, not necessarily _Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ [-measurable).]


The following theorem summarizes the analogous results of Theorem 1 and Corollary 3 under


a general price dynamics. Its proof is provided in Appendix A.2.


**Theorem 5.** _Under Assumptions 1 and 3, the optimal strategy that solves the Bellman equation_


(15) _with the ansatz_ (28) _and terminal conditions ОұtN_ +1 = _вҲ’О» and_ [пҝҪ] _htN_ +1 = 0 _is given, for k_ =


21


0 _, . . ., N_ _, by_


_tk_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ 1
_L_ - _t_ [+] _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _Lt_ [+] _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ + _[ПҒ]_ [+] вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ [+]
2 _Оіtk_ 2 _Оіtk_


_tk_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ 1
_L_ - _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _Lt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ _вҲ’_ _[ПҒ][вҲ’]_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_
2 _Оіtk_ 2 _Оіtk_



_N_



_i_ = _k_ +1


_N_



_i_ = _k_ +1



_i_ +1

    -     -     _ПҒ_ [+] _tk_ [вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _i_ _[k]_ [E] E








- _Оҫl_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 + _tk_ +1 [= 1] 
_l_ = _k_ +2



_i_ +1

     -      -      - _вҲ’_      - [пҝҪ]

_вҲ’_ _ПҲt_ [+] _k_ [вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _i_ _[k]_ [E] E _Оҫl_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 _tk_ +1 [= 1]

_l_ = _k_ +2



_i_ +1

     -      -      
_вҲ’_ _ПҲt_ [+] _k_ [вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _i_ _[k]_ [E] E



(29)



_,_



_i_ +1

    -     -     _ПҒ_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _i_ _[k]_ [E] E








- _Оҫl_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 + _tk_ +1 [= 1] 
_l_ = _k_ +2



_i_ +1

     -     -     - _вҲ’_     - [пҝҪ]
_вҲ’ПҲt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _i_ _[k]_ [E] E _Оҫl_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ 1 _tk_ +1 [= 1]

_l_ = _k_ +2



_,_



_where Lt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ _is defined as in Corollary 3, Оіtk_ _, ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[, and][ ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[are defined as in]_ [ (17)] _[, and the quantity]_


_Оҫk_ +1 _вҲҲFtk_ +1 _is given as:_



1 [+]
_Оҫk_ +1 = 1 + _tk_ +1 ( _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҒ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)]
_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_

1 _[вҲ’]_
+ _tk_ +1 ( _ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҒ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҲ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [)] _[.]_
_ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_



(30)



**Remark 5.** _Formula (29) gives us some interesting insights, even in the simplest case where only_


_one-step-ahead forecast_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[is implemented, while assuming that]_ [ вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _i_ _[k]_ [= 0] _[ afterward (][i][ вүҘ]_ _[k]_ [ + 1] _[).]_

_In that case, the third summands of_ _L_ [пҝҪ][+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ _and_ _L_ [пҝҪ] _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ _vanish, yielding the following parsimonious_


_formulas for the optimal placement strategy:_



_tk_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ [+] _k_

- _a_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [:=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _Stk_ + _L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ + _[ПҒ]_ [+] 2 _Оіtk_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[,]_

_tk_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_

- _b_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [:=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ [пҝҪ] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _Stk вҲ’_ _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ + _[ПҒ][вҲ’]_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[.]_
2 _Оіtk_



(31)



_The last term above allows the MM to adjust вҖҳonlineвҖҷ her strategy depending on her views or forecast_


_of the next price change at each time instant tk. This feature in turn provides a more data driven_


_placement strategy in addition to the method described in Remark 2 above. Using the facts that_


22


_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[вүӨ]_ [0] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [)][2] _[ вүӨ]_ _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _[, and (A-10)-(A-11), it is possible to show that]_




_вҲ’_ _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2]


_вҲ’_ _Вө_ [+] _c_ [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [0] +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2]



Гұ



1 _вҲ’_ _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



Гҙ


Гҙ



_ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



Гұ



1 _вҲ’_ _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1



_ПҒ_ [+] _tk_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[вүӨ]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+]


_ПҒ_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[вүӨ]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



ГҮ

_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



ГҮ

_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



Гұ 1 1

_вҲ’_
_ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1

Гұ 1 1

_вҲ’_
_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



ГҙГҘ

_,_


ГҙГҘ

_._



_Since Оұt_ [0] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [0] +1 _[вүӨ]_ [0] _[, we conclude that][ ПҒ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[вүӨ]_ [0] _[ if]_


_ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) = 0 _,_ _or_ _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[.]_ (32)


_In those cases, since Оіtk <_ 0 _(cf. (A-13)), the coefficients of_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[in (31) are positive. This sign]_

_makes sense since, if, for example,_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[>]_ [ 0] _[, the MM will try to post her LOs at higher price levels]_


_(on both sides of the book) to anticipate the expected higher price Stk_ +1 _in the subsequent interval._


_The first condition in_ (32) _is satisfied to a good extend when the trading frequency is high enough,_


_while the second condition therein is supported empirically by our analysis in Section 3.1._


**2.4** **Admissibility of the Optimal Strategy**


In this section, we will give sufficient conditions to guarantee that the optimal strategy of Theorem


5 is strictly admissible. All the proof of this subsection are deferred to Appendix A.3.


Recall from Definition 1 that a strategy ( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _t_ 0 _[, . . ., L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _N_ [) is strictly admissible if for all] _[ k][ вҲҲ]_

_{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}_, _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲF][t]_ _k_ [, and] _[ L]_ [+] _tk_ [+] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[>]_ [ 0, implying that the execution price] _[ a][t]_ _k_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ L]_ _t_ [+] _k_

of the ask LO is always larger than the execution price _btk_ = _Stk вҲ’_ _L_ [+] _tk_ [of the bid LO. Proposition]


6 below provides sufficient conditions under which the optimal strategy introduced in Theorem 5


enjoys this property.


**Proposition 6.** _Under Assumptions 1 and 3 and regardless of the dynamics of the midprice process,_


_the optimal strategy of Theorem 5 yields positive spreads at all times_ ( _i.e., atk > btk_ _, for all k вҲҲ_


_{_ 0 _, . . ., N_ _}_ ) _, provided that the following four conditions hold:_


_(1) The first and second conditional moments of c_ _[Вұ]_ _, as defined in Equation_ (8) _, satisfy_


_Вөc_ := _Вө_ [+] _c_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][,]_ _Вөc_ 2 := _Вө_ [+] _c_ [2][ =] _[ Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[.]_ (33)


23


_(2) At every time k вҲҲ{_ 0 _, . . ., N_ _},_


_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=:] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[.]_ (34)


_(3) For every k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _,_ 2 _, . . ., N_ _}, the conditional expectations of c_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[and]_ [ (] _[c]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [)][2] _[p]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[, as defined]_


_in Eq._ (8) _, satisfy_


_Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _cp_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ][,]_ _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _p_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [2] _[Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ][.]_ (35)


_(4) For every k вҲҲ{_ 1 _,_ 2 _, . . ., N_ + 1 _}, the Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ _[-measurable random variables][ Оұ][t]_ _k_ _[and][ h][t]_ _k_ _[, defined by]_

_Eqs._ (19) _and_ (20) _, depend on_ 1 [+] _tk_ _[and]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[only through]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[.]_


Conditions (33) and (34) are some type of symmetry conditions between the bid and ask sides


of the market. Condition (35) postulates that the demand and supply slopes _c_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [and the corre-]

sponding reservation prices _p_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [are uncorrelated. These assumptions are empirically supported]


by our empirical analysis in Section 3 (see Figure 4 and Table 1).


The following result shows that the conditions (2) and (3) of Proposition 6 can be relaxed in


the case that there is no possibility of simultaneous arrivals of sell and buy market orders in the


same subinterval. The latter condition is expected to be met reasonably well when the frequency


of trades is high enough (i.e., max _k{tk вҲ’_ _tkвҲ’_ 1 _} вүҲ_ 0).


**Corollary 7.** _Suppose that, for every k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ +1 _}, the conditional probability ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) =

P ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) =] [ P] [(] [1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _k_ [)] _[ is]_ [ 0] _[. Then, regardless of the dynamics]_


_of the midprice process, the optimal strategy is admissible if Conditions (1) and (4) of Proposition_


_6 are satisfied._


The most technical condition in the results above is (4), which can also be interpreted as another


symmetry assumption. This condition could be difficult to verify due to the intrinsic complexity of


the recursive formulas (19) and (20). In the Lemma 8 below, we show that it suffices to pick the


function _g_ : R [2] _[П–]_ _вҶ’_ R _[d]_ introduced in Eq. (6) such that it depends on _**e**_ [+] _tk_ [:= (] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [) and]

_**e**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [:= (] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [) through] _**[e]**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [.]


**Lemma 8.** _If the function g in Eq._ (6) _is of the form g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ ) = _ПҶ_ ( _**e**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)] _[ for some][ ПҶ]_ [ :] _[ {]_ [0] _[,]_ [ 1] _[,]_ [ 2] _[}][П–][ вҶ’]_

R _, then Оұtk and htk will depend on_ _**e**_ [+] _tk_ _[and]_ _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[only thorugh]_ _**[e]**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[. In particular, they depend]_

_on_ 1 [+] _tk_ _[and]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[only through]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[and the condition (4) in Proposition 6 is satisfied.]_


24


**2.5** **Inventory Analysis of the optimal strategy**


In this section we analyze the behavior of the inventory under the optimal strategy found in Section


2.2, when _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _вүЎ_ 0 and some symmetry conditions are satisfied. As explained above, the first


condition is reasonable when the trading frequency is high enough. The following result shows that


when the initial inventory is 0, then the expected inventory stays at 0 at all future times. The


proofs of this part are deferred to the Appendix A.4.


**Proposition 9.** _Suppose that the Assumptions of Theorem 1, the conditions (1)-(2) of Proposition_


_6, and the condition of Lemma 8 are satisfied. We also assume that ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _вүЎ_ 0 _and Вө_ [+] _cp_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_


_and Вө_ [+]
_c_ [2] _p_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _p_ _[. Then, under the optimal placement strategy of Corollary 3, for any][ k][, we have]_



ГҘ



(i) E [пҝҪ] _Itk_ +1 _|Ftk_ - =



ГҮ1 + 2 _ПҖtk_ +1 _Вөc вҲ’Вө_ [2] _cОұ_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _t_ [1] _kk_ +1+1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2]



_Itk_ _,_ (ii) E[ _Itk_ ] = 0 _,_ (36)



_where, per the proof of Corollary 7, Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 [:=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[.]_


Note that (36)-(ii) does not follow directly from (36)-(i) as in the nonadaptive case of Capponi


_et al._ (2021) because _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 [is random here and correlated to] _[ I][t]_ _k_ [. The derivation of (36)-(ii) requires]


an explicit representation of _Itk_ and heavily depends on the symmetry condition of Lemma 8.

Recalling from Lemma 2 that _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ [0 and since] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [2] _c_ _[вүӨ]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [2] _[вүӨ]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [2][, we have] _[ вҲ’]_ [1] _[ вүӨ]_ [1 +]

2 _ПҖtk_ +1 _ВөcвҲ’Вө_ [2] _cОұ_ _[Оұ]_ [1] _tk_ [1] _tk_ +1+1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2] _[вүӨ]_ [1. Thus, by Equation (36)-(i), it follows that]


пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪE пҝҪ _Itk_ +1 _|Ftk_                                - [пҝҪ] пҝҪпҝҪ _вүӨ|Itk_ _|._ (37)


In particular, if _Itk >_ 0 ( _Itk <_ 0), then E [пҝҪ] _Itk_ +1 _|Ftk_ - _вүӨ_ _Itk_ (E пҝҪ _Itk_ +1 _|Ftk_ - _вүҘ_ _Itk_ ), hence the inventory


is mean-reverting toward 0.


**2.6** **Optimal MM strategy under running inventory penalization**


In continuous-time settings, Guilbaud & Phan (2013), Cartea _et al._ (2014), and others have ad

vocated for a running inventory penalty to further control the inventory risk. Under this control,

the performance criterion is E - _WT вҲ’_ _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ - _tT_ _[I]_ _s_ [2] _[ds]_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ft_ пҝҪ. In discrete-time, the analogous


25


value function at time _tk_ naturally takes the form:


пЈ®



_N_ +1


_It_ [2] _j_
_j_ = _k_ +1



пЈ№


_Ftk_ пЈ» _,_ _k_ = 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ + 1 _,_ (38)
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



пЈ° _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_



_N_ +1




_Vtk_ := sup E
( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,...,L]_ _tN_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_ _[,t]_ _N_



where as usual [пҝҪ] _j_ _[N]_ = [+1] _N_ +2 [= 0. The dynamic programming principle corresponding to (38) can then]


be written, for _k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_, as


                      -                      _Vtk_ = sup E _Vtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _П•It_ [2] _k_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _,_ (39)
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_


starting with _VtN_ +1 = _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [. The heuristics behind (39) is classical:]




            -            _Vtk_ = sup E E _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_
( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,...,L]_ _tN_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_ _[,t]_ _N_



_N_ +1

- _It_ [2] _j_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ +1пҝҪ _вҲ’_ _П•It_ [2] _k_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ 
_j_ = _k_ +2




      -      = sup E sup E _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_ ( _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 _[,...,L]_ _tN_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_ +1 _[,t]_ _N_


      -      = sup E _Vtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _П•It_ [2] _k_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ _._
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_



_N_ +1

- _It_ [2] _j_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ +1пҝҪ _вҲ’_ _П•It_ [2] _k_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ 
_j_ = _k_ +2



The following result, whose proof is deferred to Appendix A.5, formalizes the heuristics above.


Specifically, this shows that, under (38), most of the results considered in this paper follow with


minor modifications.


**Theorem 10.** _Suppose that the setting and assumptions of Theorem 1 and Corollary 3 hold true._


_Then, the following statements hold:_


_1. The conclusions of Theorem 1 and Corollary 3 follow with_ (39) _replacing_ (15) _and an ansatz_


_of the form_



( _П•_ ) _gtk_ _._ (40)



_Vtk_ = _Wtk_ + _Stk_ _Itk_ +



( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ _It_ 2 _k_ [+]



( _П•_ ) _htk_ _Itk_ +



_The optimal controls_ [(] _[П•]_ [)] _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—][,][ k]_ [ = 0] _[, . . ., N][ are then given by]_



( _П•_ ) _L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ =



(1) _A_ [+] _tk_ _[,П•][I][t]_ _k_ [+]



(2) _A_ [+] _tk_ _[,П•]_ +



(3) _A_ [+] _tk_ _[,П•][,]_



( _П•_ ) _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _вҲ’_



(1) _A_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,П•][I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_


26



(2) _A_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,П•]_ +



(41)
(3) _A_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,П•][,]_


_with the coefficients_ (1) _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,П•][,]_ (2) _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,П•][, and]_ (3) _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,П•]_ _taking the same form as_ (18) _, but with Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1

_and Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[replaced with]_ ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 1 _kВұ_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•][ and]_ ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•][. Here,]_ ( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ _,_ ( _П•_ ) _htk_ _, and_ ( _П•_ ) _gtk follow the_

_same formulas as_ (19) _-_ (21) _, but with Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[,][ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[,][ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[,][ h]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[,][ g]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[, and]_ [ (] _[в„“]_ [)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[replaced with]_

( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 0 _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•][,]_ [ (] _[П•]_ [)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•][,]_ [ (] _[П•]_ [)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•][,]_ [ (] _[П•]_ [)] _[h]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[,]_ [ (] _[П•]_ [)] _[g]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[, and]_ [ (] _[в„“]_ [)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[,П•][, respectively, on the right-hand]_


_side of all the formulas._


_2. The conclusion of Lemma 2 also follows under the new running inventory penalty; i.e.,_



( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 0 _k_ +1 _[<]_



( _П•_ ) _Оұtk <_ 0 _,_ _for any k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}._



_3. The verification Theorem 4 holds true with the value function (13) replaced with_ (38) _._


**2.7** **Implementing the Optimal Strategy**


As indicated in Remark 2, the function _g_ introduced in (6) has two main purposes. First, it


summarizes the information contained in the recent history of MOs, _**e**_ _tk_ = ( 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [), and,]


more importantly, it alleviates the computational burden by reducing the dimension of the different


scenarios one needs to consider. However, in order for _g_ to work as intended, we must impose one


additional condition:


**Assumption 4.** _For k_ = 0 _, . . ., N_ _, g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ +1) _is a function of_ ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [))] _[; i.e., if we denote]_


_the image of g as Ig, then there exists a function_ О“ : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ [2] _Г— Ig вҶ’Ig such that_


_g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ +1) = О“( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [))] _[.]_ (42)


Obviously, if we picked _g_ to be the identity function ( _g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ ) = _**e**_ _tk_ ) so that there is no dimension


reduction, then (42) is trivially satisfied by taking О“ to be the mapping that drops the last two


coordinates of the vector ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [)).] A more interesting example is when _g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ +1) =

_**e**_ [+] _tk_ +1 [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [(which satisfies the conditions for admissibility stated in Lemma 8). In that case,]


denoting the mapping that drops the last two entries in a vector as О“ _вҲ’_, we have:


_g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ +1) = ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_ [ О“] _[вҲ’]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [)) = (] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_ [ О“] _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [)))] _[,]_


27


and the condition of Assumption 4 is satisfied.


Working backward by induction, it is not hard to check that, under Assumption 4, the coeffi

cients [(1)] _A_ [+] _tk_ [,][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [, and][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [for the optimal placement strategy (22) depend only on] _[ g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [). Indeed,]

the probabilities P ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ j][|F][t]_ _k_ [) have this property since these can be expressed in]

terms of _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [and] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) (see (9)), which enjoy the stated property per Assumption 1-(iv). So,]

it only remains to show that _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [, and] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ _[i,j]_ _k_ +1 [(and the corresponding quantities for] _[ h][t]_ _k_ +1 [)]


have this property. Indeed, by the induction step, we can assume that _Оұtk_ +1 = Оӣ( _g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ +1)), for

some function Оӣ : _Ig вҶ’_ R, and, by Assumption 4, _Оұtk_ +1 = Оӣ(О“( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _k_ [)). Then, similar]


to (A-6),




- P [пҝҪ] 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ 
_в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ Оӣ(О“(1 _, в„“, g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ )) P ~~[пҝҪ]~~ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] ~~пҝҪ~~ - _Ftk_ ~~пҝҪ~~




  _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=]



P ~~[пҝҪ]~~ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] ~~пҝҪ~~ - _Ftk_ ~~пҝҪ~~ _,_ (43)



which is clearly a function of _g_ ( _**e**_ _tk_ ). We can similarly deal with _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ _[i,j]_ _k_ +1 [,] _[ h]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [,] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [, and] _[ h]_ _t_ _[i,j]_ _k_ +1 [.]


To carry out the optimal placement strategy, we think of each value _**О№**_ _вҲҲIg_, the image of _g_, as a


possible scenario of the immediate history of MOs. Before the beginning of trading, the MM first


computes, backward in time using Eqs. (17)-(19), the coefficients [(1)] _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ [,][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [, and][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [of the optimal]


placement strategy (22) for each time _tk_ and each possible scenario _**О№**_ _вҲҲIg_ . This results in a type


of вҖңdictionaryвҖқ or вҖңcatalogвҖқ. Once the catalog is computed, she can then start her trading moving


forward in time. At each time _tk_, she observes the recent history of MOs _**e**_ _tk_ = ( 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _kвҲ’П–_ +1 [).]

Based on the _**e**_ _tk_, the inventory value _Itk_, the asset price _Stk_, and her forecasts вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _j_ [of future price]

changes, she places her bid and ask LOs using the catalog. For instance, if she assumes вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _i_ [= 0,]


for all _i вүҘ_ _k_ + 1, she will place her orders at




- _a_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+]



(1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



(2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) + _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _k_ [+]
_Atk_ [+] _[ПҒ]_ [+] вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[,]_
2 _Оіtk_



(44)



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(3) _вҲ’_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_
_Atk_ [+] _[ПҒ][вҲ’]_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[,]_
2 _Оіtk_




- _b_ _[вҲ—]_ _tk_ [:=] _[ S][t]_ _k_ [+]



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



where above we are also assuming that the coefficients of вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ [are computed at the beginning of the]


trading for each time _tk_ and each scenario _**О№**_ _вҲҲIg_ .


28


### **3 Calibration and Testing the Optimal Strategy on LOB Data**

In this section, we give further details about the implementation of the optimal placement strategy


of Section 2.3, including model calibration. We then illustrate our approach with real LOB data


from Microsoft Corporation (stock symbol MSFT) during the year of 2019 [2] . Our data set is


obtained from Nasdaq TotalView-ITCH 5.0, which is a direct data feed product offered by The


Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC [3] . TotalView-ITCH uses a series of event messages to track any change


in the LOB. For each message, we observe the timestamp, type, direction, volume, and price. We


reconstruct the dynamics of the top 20 levels of the LOB directly from the event message data. We


treat each day as an independent sample.


In the first subsection we detail the model training or parameter estimation procedure. The


training will be based on the historical LOB data of the 20 days prior to each testing day [4] . In


the second subsection, we present the performance of the optimal placement policy using the real


flow of orders for MSFT in a given testing day and compare it with вҖңfix-placementвҖқ strategies that


place LOs at fixed ask (bid) price levels. More specifically, in each test day, we assume the MM


places her LOs every second from 10:00 am to 3:30 pm, placing a total of 19800 LOs at each side


of the book.


**3.1** **Parameter Estimation**


**3.1.1** **Estimation of** _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[, ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]


We first need to specify the function _g_ in Assumption 1-(iv). We consider the following three


functions:


_g_ 1 : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ [6] _вҶ’{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ [6] _,_ _g_ 1( _**e**_ _tk_ ) = _**e**_ _tk_ = ( 1 [+] _tk_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 2 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 2 [)] _[,]_


_g_ 2 : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ [6] _вҶ’{_ 0 _,_ 1 _,_ 2 _}_ [3] _,_ _g_ 2( _**e**_ _tk_ ) = ( 1 [+] _tk_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 2 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 2 [)] _[,]_ (45)

_g_ 3 : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ [8] _вҶ’{_ 0 _,_ 1 _,_ 2 _}_ [4] _,_ _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ ) = ( 1 [+] _tk_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 2 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 2 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 3 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _kвҲ’_ 3 [)] _[.]_


2We have tried a few other stocks but the results are not shown here for the sake of space.
3 `http://www.nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=Totalview2`
4We tried different windows. The performance is good provided that the window size is not too small (say, 2 or 5
days).


29


The first function does not satisfy the conditions for admissibility of Lemma 8. However, in practice,


for each of the functions above, it is very rare that _atk < btk_ or that _atk_ ( _btk_ ) is below (above) the

midprice _St_ _[mid]_ _k_ . When any of these events happen, we simply set _atk_ and/or _btk_ at the tick right


above and below the midprice depending on what is appropriate.


Once we have selected the function _g_, we use the historical LOB data of the 20 days prior


to each testing day to estimate the functions _f_, _f_ [+], and _f_ _[вҲ’]_ in Assumption 1-(iv). To this end,


we simply leverage the interpretations of those functions as conditional probabilities. Specifically,


setting _Ig_ := Im( _g_ ) _вҠӮ_ R _[d]_, for every _**О№**_ _вҲҲIg_, we estimate _f_ _[Вұ]_ ( _**О№**_ ) and _f_ ( _**О№**_ ) as


_tв„“_ [= 1] _[, g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _в„“_ [) =] _**[О№]**_ _[}]_
_f_              - _[Вұ]_ ( _**О№**_ ) = [#] _[{]_ [1] _[Вұ]_ _,_ (46)
# _{g_ ( _**e**_ _tв„“_ ) = _**О№**_ _}_

_tв„“_ [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _в„“_ [= 1] _[, g]_ [(] _**[e]**_ _[t]_ _в„“_ [) =] _**[О№]**_ _[}]_
_f_ пҝҪ( _**О№**_ ) = [#] _[{]_ [1] [+] _,_ (47)
# _{g_ ( _**e**_ _tв„“_ ) = _**О№**_ _}_


where # _A_ indicates the cardinality of a set _A_ and the times _tв„“_ вҖҷs range over all the seconds from


10:00 am to 3:30 pm in the 20 days prior to the testing day. The results of the estimation procedure


for _g_ 1 _, g_ 2 and _g_ 3 can be found in Figure 4 below. The overall behavior is what one will expect:


when _**О№**_ takes a value corresponding to more ones in _**e**_ _tв„“_, the probabilities _ПҖ_ _[Вұ]_ take larger values.


These figures also indicate that our symmetry assumption _ПҖ_ [+] = _ПҖ_ _[вҲ’]_ required for admissibility (see


Proposition 6) is reasonable.


30


(a) _ПҖ_ _[Вұ]_ as functions of _g_ 1.


(b) _ПҖ_ _[Вұ]_ as functions of _g_ 2.


(c) _ПҖ_ _[Вұ]_ as functions of _g_ 3.
Figure 4: Estimation of _ПҖ_ _[Вұ]_ under the different choices of the function _g_ given in (45). The _x_ -axis
displays the equivalence classes where the function _g_ assumes different values, whereas the _y_ -axis
represents the value of _ПҖ_ _[Вұ]_ .


31


**Remark 6.** _One of the key principles behind our approach is the presumption that we could forecast_


_to a good degree the intensity of MOs through the day using the estimated functions_ (46) _and_ (47)


_and the history of previous MOs,_ _**e**_ _tk_ _._ _To assess the validity of this principle, we compare the_


_average of the sets_


_M_ [+] _k_ [=] _[ {]_ [1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 250 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 249 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +249 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +250 _[}][,]_


_Pk_ [+] [=] _[ {][ПҖ]_ [ЛҶ] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 250 _[,]_ [ ЛҶ] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 249 _[, . . ., ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[, . . ., ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +249 _[, ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +250 _[}][,]_


_where_ ЛҶ _ПҖt_ [+] _в„“_ [:=][ пҝҪ] _[f]_ [+][(] _[g]_ [1][(] [1] _t_ [+] _в„“_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _в„“_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _kвҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _в„“вҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _в„“вҲ’_ 2 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _в„“вҲ’_ 2 [))] _[. Figure 5 below shows the result for all the]_


_seconds tk in a prototypical day. This shows that our approach is surprisingly accurate in track-_


_ing the intensity of MOвҖҷs throughout the day using historical data from previous days and past_


_information of MOs._


Figure 5: Moving average of the estimated values of _P_ [+] (using the function _g_ = _g_ 1) and the moving
average of _M_ [+] _k_ [on August 7th, 2019.]


32


**3.1.2** **Estimation of the Demand Functions.**


To estimate the constants _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ of Eq. (8), upon which our strategy depends on, we use the sample]


averages within the previous 20 trading days. For instance, the estimate of _Вө_ [+] _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ is]



_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ :=] [1]

_N_



_N_ _вҲ’_ 1


(ЛҶ _c_ [+] _tв„“_ +1 [)] _[m]_ [(ЛҶ] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _в„“_ +1 [)] _[n][,]_ (48)
_в„“_ =0



where _tв„“_ +1 ranges over all the seconds of the previous 20 days from 10:00 am to 3:30 pm and _N_ is


the total number of those. To estimate (ЛҶ _c_ [+] _tв„“_ +1 _[,]_ [ ЛҶ] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _в„“_ +1 [) for one of those previous 1-second time intervals]


[ _tв„“, tв„“_ +1), we apply the following procedure. Assume that the MM places an ask LO at price level


_Pв„“_ at time _tв„“_ with volume _VLO_, and that the volume of existing ask LOs with prices lower than _Pв„“_


is _VL_ . If a buy MO with volume _VM_ arrives during [ _tв„“, tв„“_ +1), then the number of shares of the MMвҖҷs


LO to be filled equals to (( _VM вҲ’_ _VL_ ) _вҲЁ_ 0) _вҲ§_ _VLO_ [5] . We then compute this quantity for all buy MOs




                      arriving during the interval [ _tв„“, tв„“_ +1) so that _Qв„“_ := [пҝҪ] all MO



(( _VM вҲ’_ _VL_ ) _вҲЁ_ 0) _вҲ§_ _VLO_




will quantify



the actual demand at price level _Pв„“_ during that interval. Once those demands have been computed


for all price level _Pв„“_ above the midprice, we performed a weighted linear regression to estimate


(ЛҶ _c_ [+] _tв„“_ +1 _[,]_ [ ЛҶ] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _в„“_ +1 [), with the actual demand] _[ Q][в„“]_ [being the response variable and the price level] _[ P][в„“]_ [being]


the predictor, placing higher weights on price levels closer to the midprice _Stk_ . Following Eq. (4),

we can estimate ЛҶ _c_ [+] _tв„“_ [and ЛҶ] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _в„“_ [as the slope and as the quotient intercept/slope of the regression line,]

respectively. In the preprint (Capponi _et al._, 2021, p. 28), it is shown that time series (ЛҶ _c_ [+] _tв„“_ _[,]_ [ ЛҶ] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _в„“_ [)]

are reasonably stationary, implying that our method to estimate the constants _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ as (48) is]


justifiable.


In Figure 6 below, we plot the average demand curve and the regression line whose slope and _p_


value is set to the averages of the (ЛҶ _c_ [+] _tв„“_ +1 _[,]_ [ ЛҶ] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _в„“_ +1 [)вҖҷs of all 1-second time intervals [] _[t][в„“][, t][в„“]_ [+1][) during that]


date. This graph shows that the linear model in Eqs. (4)-(5) is a reasonably good approximation


of the actual volume of shares executed, especially as they are closer to the midprice where most


MOs are executed.


To give an idea of the values of _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [, we estimate those constants for each day of the 252 days]


of our sample (using an estimator like that in (48) but with the _tв„“_ вҖҷs ranging over all the seconds of


5Here, for computational simplicity, we are assuming the MMвҖҷs LO at level _Pв„“_ is ahead of the queue (hence, her
shares are the first to be filled at that level), which is a common simplification in the literature.


33


Figure 6: Plot of the actual demand on October 3rd vs. the estimated linear demand function over
a 1-second trading interval


each day) and then we take the averages of the resulting 252 estimates ЛҶ _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [. Table 1 shows the]


results. The table also shows some other related quantities to assess the validity of Eqs. (33) and


(35) in Proposition 6. As shown therein, these assumptions are reasonably met in our sample data.


_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] _c_ = 125 _._ 512 _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ = 130 _._ 622

_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] _p_ = 3 _._ 287 _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ _p_ = 3 _._ 292

_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ [ЛҶ] _p_ [+] = 412 _._ 558 _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[Вө]_ [ЛҶ] _p_ _[вҲ’]_ = 430 _._ 008

_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] _cp_ = 451 _._ 263 _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ _cp_ = 471 _._ 685

_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] = 8 _._ 47 _Г—_ 10 [4] _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ = 5 _._ 45 _Г—_ 10 [4]
_c_ [2] _c_ [2]

_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] = 3 _._ 53 _Г—_ 10 [5] _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ = 2 _._ 25 _Г—_ 10 [5]
_c_ [2] _p_ _c_ [2] _p_

_Вө_ ЛҶ [+] _c_ [2] _[Вө]_ [ЛҶ][+] _p_ = 2 _._ 78 _Г—_ 10 [5] _Вө_ ЛҶ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[Вө]_ [ЛҶ] _[вҲ’]_ _p_ = 1 _._ 79 _Г—_ 10 [5]


Table 1: Average values of _c_ _[Вұ]_ and _p_ _[Вұ]_ over 252 trading days in 2019. Entries with the same color
should be of a similar magnitude to have our model assumptions validated.


**3.1.3** **Estimation of the Drift for the Midprice Process.**


For simplicity, we set the fundamental price to be the midprice process. For our implementation,


we assume that


вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _j_ [=][ E][(] _[S][t]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[S][t]_ _j_ _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) = 0] _[,]_ _j вүҘ_ _k_ + 1 _,_


34


because in practice, one could expect вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _j_ [=][ E][(] _[S][t]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’][S][t]_ _j_ _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) to quickly decrease to 0 as] _[ j]_ [ is farther]


away from _k_ (otherwise, statistical arbitrage opportunities are likely appear) and also because the


estimation error of the forecasts вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _j_ [increases quickly as] _[ t][j]_ [ is farther away from] _[ t][k]_ [. To estimate]


the one-step ahead forecast вҲҶ _tk_ = E( _Stk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stk_ _|Ftk_ ), we simply take the average over the last 5


increments:



_._ (49)
5



ЛҶвҲҶ _tk_ = [1]

5



5




пҝҪ( _StkвҲ’i_ +1 _вҲ’_ _StkвҲ’i_ ) = _[S][t][k]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[S][t][k][вҲ’]_ [5]

5

_i_ =1



**3.2** **Numerical Results**


In this subsection we illustrate the performance of the optimal trading strategy using as _g_ function


each of the functions in (45). For each of these choices we compute the terminal value of the


performance criterion _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [under the martingale assumption. We also compute the]

terminal value when applying the placement strategy (31) with вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ [estimated as (49) and using]


the function _g_ 3. As mentioned above, our optimal placement strategy was tested based on the


LOB data of MSFT observed in the year 2019. As suggested in the preprint (Capponi _et al._, 2021,


Section 5.2), we set _О»_ = 0 _._ 0005, which gives a good estimate of the average liquidity cost for our


sample data. The cash holding _Wtk_ and the stock inventory _Itk_ were computed as


_Wtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Wtk_ = _atk_ _Q_ [вҖ№][+] _tk_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[b][t]_ _k_ _Q_ [вҖ№] _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 _[,]_ _Itk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Itk_ = _вҲ’Q_ [вҖ№][+] _tk_ +1 [+][ вҖ№] _Q_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 _[,]_


where _atk_ and _btk_ were the price of selling (buying) LOs placed at time _tk_ and _Q_ [вҖ№][+] _tk_ +1 [(] _Q_ [вҖ№] _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [) was the]


executed volume of selling (buying) LOs calculated by using the actual flow of MOs in the market


in each one-second interval of each testing day [6] . Since all the parameters of the model, namely the


filling probabilities _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[, ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) and the constants] _[ Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [, are calibrated using the past 20 days]


to each testing day, the first testing day is set to be January 30 [th], which was the 21 [st] trading day


of 2019.


**3.2.1** **Performance Criterion Distribution.**


The sample means and standard deviations of the end of the day performance criterion _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_


_О»IT_ [2] [for the 232 testing days under the four different implementations of our optimal placement]


6Here, we are again assuming for simplicity that the MMвҖҷs LO is ahead of the queue.


35


Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 1( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 2( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with General Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Mean 8 _._ 36 _Г—_ 10 [4] 8 _._ 50 _Г—_ 10 [4] 8 _._ 57 _Г—_ 10 [4] 8 _._ 26 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 1 _._ 63 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 63 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 62 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 37 _Г—_ 10 [6]


Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Level 6


Mean _вҲ’_ 7 _._ 78 _Г—_ 10 [6] _вҲ’_ 9 _._ 99 _Г—_ 10 [5] _вҲ’_ 1 _._ 14 _Г—_ 10 [5] _вҲ’_ 3 _._ 64 _Г—_ 10 [4] _вҲ’_ 5 _._ 16 _Г—_ 10 [4] _вҲ’_ 3 _._ 69 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 1 _._ 52 _Г—_ 10 [7] 4 _._ 49 _Г—_ 10 [6] 2 _._ 01 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 07 _Г—_ 10 [6] 7 _._ 16 _Г—_ 10 [5] 4 _._ 81 _Г—_ 10 [5]


Table 2: Sample Mean and Std. Dev. of the performance criterion _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [over 232 days]
for the different strategies considered (optimal and fixed-placement) based on LOB MSFT Data in
2019.



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 1( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 2( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with General Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Mean 8 _._ 23 _Г—_ 10 [4] 8 _._ 36 _Г—_ 10 [4] 8 _._ 44 _Г—_ 10 [4] 8 _._ 01 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 1 _._ 62 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 62 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 61 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 37 _Г—_ 10 [6]


Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Level 6


Mean _вҲ’_ 1 _._ 88 _Г—_ 10 [6] _вҲ’_ 3 _._ 06 _Г—_ 10 [5] _вҲ’_ 4 _._ 41 _Г—_ 10 [4] _вҲ’_ 3 _._ 12 _Г—_ 10 [4] _вҲ’_ 5 _._ 26 _Г—_ 10 [4] _вҲ’_ 3 _._ 86 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 8 _._ 18 _Г—_ 10 [6] 3 _._ 86 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 94 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 05 _Г—_ 10 [6] 7 _._ 08 _Г—_ 10 [5] 4 _._ 81 _Г—_ 10 [5]


Table 3: Sample Mean and Std. Dev. of the Terminal PnL, _WT_ + _S_ [ВҜ] _T IT_ (Terminal Cash Holdings
plus the Actual Liquidation Proceeds based on the LOB state at expiration), over 232 trading days
based on LOB MSFT data in 2019.


strategy are shown in Table 2. For comparison, we also computed the corresponding values when


using 6 deterministic strategies labeled вҖҳLevel 1вҖҷ- вҖҳLevel 6вҖҷ, where the strategy вҖҳLevel _i_ вҖҷ is the one


where the MM always posts her orders _i_ -ticks deep in the order book at both sides. To complement


Table 2, we also present Figure 7 below, where we display the histogram of performance criterion


_WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [for the 232 testing days. Table 3 presents the means and standard deviations]

of the terminal values _WT_ + _S_ [ВҜ] _T IT_, computed using the actual average price _S_ [ВҜ] _T_ per share that the


HFM would get when liquidating her inventory _IT_ with a MO based on the state of the book at


time _T_ . We refer to _S_ [ВҜ] _T IT_ as the liquidation proceeds. We do not observe significant differences


with the results presented in Table 2, which validates our assumption of modeling the liquidation


cost as _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [and the chosen penalization value of] _[ О»]_ [ = 0] _[.]_ [0005.]


36


(a) Optimal strategy by using the function _g_ = _g_ 1 under the assumption of a martingale price dynamics.


(b) Optimal strategy by using the function _g_ = _g_ 2 under the assumption of a martingale price dynamics.


(c) Optimal strategy by using the function _g_ = _g_ 3 under the assumption of a martingale price dynamics.


(d) Optimal strategy by using the function _g_ = _g_ 3 under the assumption of a general price dynamics.


Figure 7: Histogram of the performance criterion obtained from the optimal strategies under different scenarios for 232 trading days of MSFT in 2019.


37


Based on the results observed in Tables 2 - 3 and Figure 7, we can conclude that our optimal


strategy under any scenario significantly outperforms the fixed-level placement strategies. From


Tables 2 - 3, we can observe that the mean and standard deviation for all three policies under the


martingale assumption are close to each other but the policy obtained by choosing the function _g_ as


_g_ 3 has the highest mean and lowest standard deviation. In contrast, when using a one-step forecast


(49) and choosing the function _g_ as _g_ 3, the average of the performance of the optimal strategy is


slightly lower than that under martingale assumption, but the standard deviation is also lower.


Furthermore, as shown in Figure 7, the values of the performance criterion for the optimal strategy


under all 4 scenarios concentrate around zero, but exhibit some вҖңoutliersвҖқ, which indicate heavy


tails.


For comparison, in Tables 4 - 5, we report the analogous results using the optimal placement


strategies from the preprint Capponi _et al._ (2021), in which the probabilities _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [and] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]


are deterministic quadratic functions of time calibrated using historical data. While the sample


standard deviations of our adaptive placement strategy are slightly larger than those in Capponi


_et al._ (2021), the sample means of the performance criteria are significantly better.


We can further wonder how important adopting random demand is to achieve good PnL. In


Table 6-7 below, we compute the sample means and standard deviations of _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [and]

_WT_ + _S_ [ВҜ] _T IT_ based on the 232 day, still assuming adaptive probabilities _ПҖ_, but now taking _c_ and _p_ at


each test day _constant_ to their sample averages of the previous 20 trading days. As shown therein,


though the average PnL are all positive, they are significantly smaller than those in Tables 2-3 and


even those using nonadaptive _ПҖ_ вҖҷs but stochastic demand as illustrated in Tables 4-5.



Optimal Strategy


with Non-Martingale Fundamental Price


and _ПҖtk_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүҘ_ 0



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Fundamental Price


and _ПҖtk_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүҘ_ 0



Optimal Strategy


with Non-Martingale Fundamental Price


and _ПҖtk_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүЎ_ 0



Mean 6 _._ 13 _Г—_ 10 [4] 5 _._ 80 _Г—_ 10 [4] 6 _._ 11 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 1 _._ 22 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 30 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 22 _Г—_ 10 [6]


Table 4: Sample Mean and Std. of the Terminal Objective Values _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [over 232 Days.]
We fix _О»_ = 0 _._ 0005. We control cash holdings and inventory processes assuming stochastic demand
functions but deterministic intensity of MO arrivals as Capponi _et al._ (2021).


38


Optimal Strategy


with Non-Martingale Price


and _ПҖtk_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүҘ_ 0



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Price


and _ПҖtk_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүҘ_ 0



Optimal Strategy


with Non-Martingale Price


and _ПҖtk_ (1 _,_ 1) _вүЎ_ 0



Mean 6 _._ 00 _Г—_ 10 [4] 5 _._ 56 _Г—_ 10 [4] 5 _._ 97 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 1 _._ 22 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 30 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 22 _Г—_ 10 [6]


Table 5: Sample Mean and Std. of the Terminal Values _WT_ + _S_ [ВҜ] _T IT_ (Terminal Cash Holdings plus
the Actual Liquidation Proceeds based on the LOB state at expiration) over 232 Days. We control
cash holdings and inventory processes assuming stochastic demands functions but deterministic
intensity of MO arrivals as Capponi _et al._ (2021).



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 1( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 2( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with General Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Mean 3 _._ 60 _Г—_ 10 [4] 3 _._ 64 _Г—_ 10 [4] 3 _._ 90 _Г—_ 10 [4] 7 _._ 15 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 2 _._ 07 _Г—_ 10 [6] 2 _._ 07 _Г—_ 10 [6] 2 _._ 06 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 59 _Г—_ 10 [6]


Table 6: Sample Mean and Std. Dev. of the performance criterion _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [over 232]
days for the different adaptive strategies, but with deterministic demand functions (i.e., _c_ and _p_
are constant to its average values in the 20 days previous to each testing day.



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 1( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 2( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with Martingale Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Optimal Strategy


with General Midprice


Conditioning on _g_ 3( _**e**_ _tk_ )



Mean 3 _._ 26 _Г—_ 10 [4] 3 _._ 30 _Г—_ 10 [4] 3 _._ 56 _Г—_ 10 [4] 6 _._ 67 _Г—_ 10 [4]


Std. 2 _._ 07 _Г—_ 10 [6] 2 _._ 07 _Г—_ 10 [6] 2 _._ 06 _Г—_ 10 [6] 1 _._ 60 _Г—_ 10 [6]


Table 7: Sample Mean and Std. Dev. of the Terminal PnL, _WT_ + _S_ [ВҜ] _T IT_ (Terminal Cash Holdings
plus the Actual Liquidation Proceeds based on the LOB state at expiration), over 232 days for the
different adaptive strategies, but with deterministic demand functions (i.e., _c_ and _p_ are constant to
its average values in the 20 days previous to each testing day.


**3.2.2** **Inventory and price evolution.**


To analyze whether the penalization term in the performance criterion is indeed able to push the


MM to lower her inventory towards the end of the trading day, we display in Figures 8 and 9 two


prototypical sample inventory paths throughout the trading day of August 7th when computing the


optimal strategy with the choice _g_ 3, under both the martingale (Figure 8a) and the non-martingale


39


(Figure 9a) price dynamics. To compare, we also display the inventory process under the fixed

placement strategies вҖҳLevel 1вҖҷ-вҖҳLevel 6вҖҷ.


Under the general price dynamics assumption, the inventory path can reach a higher level in


the middle of the day, though it is able to bring the inventory down at the end of the day. As we


can see from Figure 8b and Figure 9b, the optimal prices for both strategies swings between prices


for level 1 and level 6. At the end of the trading day, the optimal ask prices under the general


midprice assumption is closer to the level 1 price than under the martingale assumption, and the


optimal bid prices are close to the level 6 price under both assumptions, which leads to a faster


decrease in the inventory. For the two optimal strategies, the end-of-day inventory is lower than


the вҖҳLevel 1вҖҷ-вҖҳLevel 6вҖҷ policies. This shows the effectiveness of the liquidation penalty _вҲ’О»IT_ [2] [in]


controlling inventory and avoiding large end of the day costs.


Finally, in Figures 8a and 9a we present the intraday optimal ask and bid placement prices


_atk_ and _btk_ for August 7th when choosing the function _g_ as _g_ 3 under, both, the martingale and


the general midprice assumptions. We also compare them with the вҖҳLevel 1вҖҷ- вҖҳLevel 6вҖҷ benchmark


policies. The price paths are for three 1-minute time intervals at the beginning of the trading day


10:00 _вҲ’_ 10:01, in the middle of the trading day 12:45 _вҲ’_ 12:46, and at the end of the trading day


15:29 _вҲ’_ 15:30, respectively. These graphs illustrate how the optimal placement strategies compare


to the the fixed level strategies at different times of the day. In particular, the bid and ask prices


behave as one should expect at the end of the day to control the inventory.

### **4 Conclusions**


In this manuscript, we focus on end-of-day inventory control in a market making problem. We as

sume the demand to be linear with random slope and intercept, which allows for greater flexibility


and uncovers novel features of the resulting optimal control policy. We account for simultaneous


arrivals of buy and sell MOs between consecutive market making actions, which also lead to novel


patterns of the optimal policy. We allow the market maker to incorporate forecasts of the funda

mental price in her placement strategy. Finally, we enable the investor to integrate the information


on the arrival of market orders throughout the trading. The performance of the proposed optimal


policy is assessed using historical exchange transaction data throughout an entire year. The opti

40


mal strategy derived with the novel model specifications mentioned above yields greater flexibility


and better results in our empirical study.


There are some key areas for future research based on our results:


  - It is natural to consider the possibility that the features of the demand functions also depend


on the history of market orders _**e**_ _tk_ rather than being assumed constants as in the current


framework.


  - It would be important to drop the assumption of independent between the price changes


_Stk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stk_ and the vector ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[, c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ + [).]


  - It is natural to consider the continuous limit of the model considered here. Such an extension


could help us to consider general inventory penalties.

### **A Proofs Of Main Results**


In this Appendix we provide all the proofs pertaining to Section 2.


**A.1** **Proofs of Section 2.2: Optimal Strategy for a Martingale Midprice**


_**Proof of Theorem 1.**_


The proof is done by backwards induction. First, note that for _k_ = _N_ + 1, i.e., at the terminal


time _T_ = _tN_ +1, the statement (ii) is immediate due to the terminal conditions _ОұtN_ +1 = _вҲ’О»_ and


_htN_ +1 = _gtN_ +1 = 0. So, it suffices to show the following two assertions:


(a) If the statement (ii) is true for _k_ = _j_ + 1, then the statements (i) and (iii) are true for _k_ = _j_ ;


(b) If the statement (ii) is true for _k_ = _j_ + 1 and the statements (i) and (iii) are true for _k_ = _j_,


then the statement (ii) is true for _k_ = _j_ .


Let us start to prove the first assertion (a) above. To proceed, we consider Equation (16) for _k_ = _j_ .


Replacing _Wtj_ +1 and _Itj_ +1 on the right-hand-side of (16) by their corresponding recursive formulas


41


(a) The Intraday Prices Paths.


(b) The Intraday Inventory Paths.


Figure 8: A comparison of the intraday price and inventory paths of the optimal strategy under
martingale price dynamics assumption when choosing the function _g_ as _g_ 3 and the ones of the
benchmark policies on August 7th.

42


(a) The Intraday Prices Paths.


(b) The Intraday Inventory Paths.


Figure 9: A comparison of the intraday price and inventory paths of the optimal strategy under
the general price dynamics assumption when choosing the function _g_ as _g_ 3 and the ones of the
benchmark policies on August 7th.

43


(11)-(12), we obtain



Гҹ
_Vtj_ = sup E
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _j_




 _Wtj_ +





( _Stj_ + _ОҙL_ _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ [)] _[Оҙ]_ [1] _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)]
_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



+ _Оұtj_ +1пҝҪ _Itj вҲ’_ - _Оҙ_ 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][пҝҪ][2]

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



+ _Stj_ +1пҝҪ _Itj вҲ’_ - _Оҙ_ 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][пҝҪ]

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



+ _htj_ +1пҝҪ _Itj вҲ’_ - _Оҙ_ 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][пҝҪ] [+] _[ g][t]_ _j_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



+ _htj_ +1пҝҪ _Itj вҲ’_ 


_Ftj_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



в„ў
_._



Expanding the squares inside the expectation and rearranging terms, we can write:


     


_Vtj_ = sup E
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _j_



_Wtj_ + - 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1пҝҪ _вҲ’_ _cОҙtj_ +1 [(] _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][2][ + (] _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[S][t]_ _j_ [)] _[L][Оҙ]_ _tj_ [+] _[ Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[S][t]_ _j_ 
_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



(A-1)


(A-2)



+ _Оұtj_ +1


+ _Stj_ +1



Гҹ _It_ [2] _j_ [+] - 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1пҝҪ( _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [)][2][(] _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][2][ +][ пҝҪ][2] _[ОҙI][t]_ _j_ _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ [2(] _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [)][2] _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪ _LОҙtj_

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_


                       + ( _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[ОҙI][t]_ _j_ _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1


в„ў
+ 2 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’][L]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [+] _[ p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [+] _[ p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[вҲ’]_ _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [)]


ГҜ ГІ

 _Itj_ + 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’][Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [+] _[ Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)]

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_




  + _htj_ +1 _Itj_ + 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’][Оҙh][t]_ _j_ +1 _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [+] _[ Оҙh][t]_ _j_ +1 _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [) +] _[ g][t]_ _j_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



+ _htj_ +1 _Itj_ + 


_Ftj_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ





_._



We need to compute the conditional expectation of each term above. Recall from Assumption 1 that


_Gtj_ +1 = _Пғ_ ( _Ftj_ _,_ 1 [+] _tj_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [) and that, by our backwards induction hypothesis,] _[ Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 _[, h][t]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲҲH]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ +1 [=]

_Пғ_ ( _**e**_ _tj_ +1) _вҠӮGtj_ +1. The idea is to apply the law of iterated expectations, E[ _В·|Ftj_ ] = E [пҝҪ] E[ _В·|Gtj_ +1]пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ пҝҪ.

We can then pull out all the _Gtj_ +1-measurable factors (e.g., 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [,] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 [,] _[ h][t]_ _j_ +1 [,] _[ L][Вұ]_ _tj_ [,] _[ I][t]_ _j_ [,] _[ S][t]_ _j_ [,]

etc.) from the inside expectation E[ _В·| Gtj_ +1]. We also use the fact that ( _c_ [+] _tj_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 [) and (] _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[, p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [)]


are conditionally independent given _Gtj_ +1 (see Assumption 1), in addition to Eq. (8). As an example,


we will explicitly show the computations of two terms in (A-2). The remaining terms follow similar


44


arguments. Consider _A_ := E [пҝҪ] _Оұtj_ +1 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ пҝҪ:


ГҜ
_A_ = E E [пҝҪ] _Оұtj_ +1 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Gtj_ +1пҝҪ [пҝҪ] _Ftj_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



ГІ



ГҜ
= E 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 [E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ [+] _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Gtj_ +1пҝҪ [пҝҪ] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ



ГҜ
= E 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 [E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ [+] _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Gtj_ +1пҝҪEпҝҪ _cвҲ’tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Gtj_ +1пҝҪ [пҝҪ] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ



= EпҝҪ 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 [E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ [+] _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 + _tj_ +1пҝҪEпҝҪ _cвҲ’tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 _вҲ’tj_ +1пҝҪ [пҝҪ] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_        - _._


Now, since _Оұtj_ +1 _вҲҲHt_ _[П–]_ _j_ +1 [, we have]


_Оұtj_ +1 = ОҰ( 1 [+] _tj_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] _[,]_ (A-3)


for some function ОҰ. Using the well-know property


       E( _f_ ( _X, Y_ ) _|F_ ) = _f_ ( _x, Y_ )P( _X_ = _x|F_ ) (A-4)


_x_


for a discrete r.v. _X_ and a _F_ -measurable variable _Y_, we can write:


_A_ = EпҝҪ 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 [E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ [+] _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 + _tj_ +1пҝҪEпҝҪ _cвҲ’tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 _вҲ’tj_ +1пҝҪ [пҝҪ] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_   

=    - _iв„“_ ОҰ( _i, в„“,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)][E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 + _tj_ +1 [=] _[ i]_ [пҝҪ][E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 _вҲ’tj_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ [пҝҪ]

_i,в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_


_Г—_ P [пҝҪ] 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_      
= _Вө_ [+] _cp_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ [ОҰ(1] _[,]_ [ 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)][P][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ [+] _j_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [= 1] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_    
= _Вө_ [+] _cp_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[,]_


where we used the definition _ПҖtj_ +1(1 _,_ 1) = P ( 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) and that]


_Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _j_ +1 _[| F][t]_ _j_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tj_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [= 1]]

= E[ОҰ( 1 [+] _tj_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ _,_ 1 + _tj_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [= 1]]


+
= E[ОҰ(1 _,_ 1 _,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ _,_ 1 _tj_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [= 1] = ОҰ(1] _[,]_ [ 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] _[.]_


45


Similarly, consider _B_ := E [пҝҪ] _Stj_ +1 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ пҝҪ, for _Оҙ вҲҲ{_ + _, вҲ’}_ . Then, by Assumption 2


and the martingale condition E[ _Stj_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stj_ _|Ftj_ ] = 0:



ГҜ
_B_ = E ( _Stj_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stj_ ) 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ ГҜ
+ _Stj_ E 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ



ГҜ
= E _Stj_ +1 _вҲ’_ _Stj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ ГҜ
E 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ ГҜ
+ _Stj_ E 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ



ГҜ ГІ
= _Stj_ E 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ _._


We then proceed as before:


ГҜ
_B_ = _Stj_ E E [пҝҪ] 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Gtj_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ ГҜ
= _Stj_ E 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [E][пҝҪ] _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 _Оҙtj_ +1пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_



ГІ



= _Stj_



1

- _в„“_ E [пҝҪ] _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ 1 _Оҙtj_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ [пҝҪ][P][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ - = _Stj_ _ВөОҙcp_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[.]_

_в„“_ =0



After computing the conditional expectations therein and substituting _Vtk_ in the LHS of (A-2), we


get the equation:


_Оұtj_ _It_ [2] _j_ [+] _[ S][t]_ _j_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [+] _[ h][t]_ _j_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [+] _[ g][t]_ _j_



Гҹ
( _Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [)(] _[L][Оҙ]_ _tj_ [)][2][ +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[ОҙВө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оҙh]_ [1] _tj_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_



= sup
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _j_



пҝҪпҝҪ

_ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1
_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



(A-5)



+ [пҝҪ] _Вө_ _[Оҙ]_ _cp_ [+] _[ Оҙh]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [(2] _[ОҙВө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ][I][t]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [)][пҝҪ] _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_



в„ў




              -               + 2 _Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _Вө_ [+] _cp_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [+] _[ Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ [+] _tj_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][L]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _cp_


                          + _Оұt_ [0] _j_ +1 _[I]_ _t_ [2] _j_ [+] _[ I][t]_ _j_ _[S][t]_ _j_ [+] _[ h]_ _t_ [0] _j_ +1 _[I][t]_ _j_ [+] _[ g]_ _t_ [0] _j_ +1 _._


The expression inside the outer brackets on the right-hand side of the above equation is a quadratic


function in ( _L_ [+] _tj_ _[, L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [). Simple partial differentiation and some simplifications (see (A-28) below)]


show that the unique _stationary points_ of the quadratic functional are given by



(2) _AвҲ’tj_ [+]



_L_ [+] _tj_ _[,][вҲ—]_ =



(3) _AвҲ’tj_ _[,]_



(1) _A_ + _tj_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [+]



(2) _A_ + _tj_ [+]



(3) _A_ + _tj_ _[,]_ _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _вҲ’_ (1) _AвҲ’tj_ _[I][t]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_



where [(1)] _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ [,][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ [, and][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ [satisfy the relations given in (18) with the auxiliary quantities] _[ ПҒ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ [,] _[ ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ [,]

and _Оіtj_ satisfying the relations given in (17). It remains to show that _L_ [+] _tj_ _[,][вҲ—]_ and _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ _[,][вҲ—]_ are in fact the


46


global maxima points of the quadratic function inside the outer brackets on the right-hand side of

(A-5). This is deferred to Corollary 3. Substituting the values of [пҝҪ] _L_ [+] _tj_ _[,][вҲ—][, L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[,][вҲ—]_ - above into Equation

(A-5) and equating the coefficients of _It_ [2] _j_ [,] _[ I][t]_ _j_ [, and the remaining terms that do not depend on] _[ I][t]_ _j_


or _Stj_, on both sides of the Equation A-5, we obtain Equations (19)-(21), which proves parts (i)


and (iii) of the theorem for _k_ = _j_ .


We now prove the assertion (b) stated at the beginning of the proof; i.e., we show that if


statement (ii) is true for _k_ = _j_ + 1 and statements (i) and (iii) are true for _k_ = _j_, then statement


(ii) is true for _k_ = _j_ (that is, _Оұtj_ _, htj_ _, gtj вҲҲHt_ _[П–]_ _j_ [). We show the details for] _[ Оұ][t]_ _j_ _[вҲҲH]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ [(we can]

similarly prove _htj_ _, gtj вҲҲHt_ _[П–]_ _j_ [). First, notice that by Assumption 1-(iv),] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +1 _[, ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вҲҲH]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ [.]


Furthermore, by Assumption 1-(iv) again and the representation (A-3), which follows from our


backward induction assumption _Оұtj_ +1 _вҲҲHt_ _[П–]_ _j_ +1 [, we can compute the variables] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _j_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _j_ +1 [, and]

_Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] [, defined as in (3), as follows:][7]


_Оұt_ [0] _j_ +1 [=]         - ОҰ( _i, в„“,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)][P][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ [+] _j_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_         
_i,в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_


=       - ОҰ( _i, в„“,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)][P][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ [+] _j_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _HtП–j_       
_i,в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_



_Оұt_ [1+] _j_ +1 [=] - ОҰ(1 _, в„“,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)][P][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ _,_ 1 + _tj_ +1 [= 1][пҝҪ]

_в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_



(A-6)




- P [пҝҪ] 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _HtП–j_ 
_в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ ОҰ(1 _, в„“,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] P ~~[пҝҪ]~~ 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [= 1] ~~пҝҪ~~ - _HtП–j_ ~~пҝҪ~~




 =



P ~~[пҝҪ]~~ 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [= 1] ~~пҝҪ~~ - _HtП–j_ ~~пҝҪ~~



_Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] [= ОҰ(1] _[,]_ [ 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] _[.]_


Therefore, it is now clear that _Оұt_ [0] _j_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] _[вҲҲH]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ [.] Using an identical argument, we can

conclude that _h_ [0] _tj_ +1 _[, h]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[, h]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] _[вҲҲH]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ [. Then, since] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ are constants, we can easily see that]

(1) _AВұtj_ _[,]_ [ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ [and] (3) _AВұtj_ [are] _[ H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ [-measurable. From Eq. (19), we conclude that] _[ Оұ][t]_ _j_ [is] _[ H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _j_ [-measurable]


random variables. Finally, we conclude the validity of the statement (ii) of the theorem for _k_ =


_j_ .


_**Proof of Lemma 2.**_


7Note that Assumption 1-(iv) actually implies that P ( 1 + _tk_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ j][|F][t]_ _k_ [) =] [ P] [(] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ i,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ j][|H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _k_ [)]
for all _i, j_ and not only for _i_ = _j_ = 1.


47


Substituting the value of [(1)] _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ [, defined in Eq. (18), into the recursive Eq. (19), we get that]


_Оұtk_ = _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [+] _[ N][k][/Оі][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ (A-7)


with


_Nk_ = ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [) + (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)]




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[,]_


пҝҪ2 +
_Оіtk_ = [пҝҪ] _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _вҲ’_ _ПҖtk_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)] _[.]_



(A-8)



Note that for _k_ = _N_ + 1, we have that _ОұtN_ +1 = _ОұT_ = _вҲ’О» <_ 0 and thus _ОұtN_ +1 _<_ 0, as _О»_ is a positive

constant. By backwards induction, to prove the lemma it suffices to show that _Nk/Оіtk вҲҲ_ (0 _, вҲ’Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [),]


whenever _Оұtk_ +1 _<_ 0. The remaining proof is then divided into three smaller subparts: proving that,

for _k вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _, . . ., N_ _}_, (i) _Оіtk <_ 0, (ii) _Nk <_ 0, and that (iii) _Nk/Оіtk < вҲ’Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [.]


(i) Clearly,


_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1]]

= E[ _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1]][P][[] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1]]



+ E[ _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0]][P][[] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0] _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1]]



(A-9)



= _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _ПҖtkПҖ_ +1 _t_ [+] _k_ (1+1 _,_ 1) + _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [0] +1



ГҮ



_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1



1 _вҲ’_ _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



ГҘ



_,_



and, therefore,


_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [0] +1


Analogously, we have


_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1


48




- _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _._ (A-10)


- _ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _._ (A-11)


On the other hand, since by assumption _Оұtk_ +1 _<_ 0,


_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1]] _[ вүӨ]_ [0] _[,]_

E[ _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0]] _[ вүӨ]_ [0] _[,]_ E[ _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1]] _[ вүӨ]_ [0] _[,]_

_ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) = P ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [)] _[ вүӨ]_ [P] [(] [1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [) =] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_


and, thus, by Eqs. (A-10)-(A-11),


_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_ [0] _[,]_ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_ [0] _[.]_ (A-12)


Since _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _[ вүҘ]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [)][2][, these equations imply that,]


_Оіtk вүӨ_ _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)]



_вүӨ_ _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)]


= _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1пҝҪ _Оұt_ 1+ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ - _<_ 0 _,_



(A-13)



where for the second- and last inequality above we used that _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[| F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [=]


1] _вүӨ_ 0 since, by assumption, _Оұtk_ +1 _<_ 0.


(ii) Let us first rearrange the terms in (A-8) as follows:


_Nk_ = ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [) + (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)]


_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2]



= _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2][пҝҪ] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)(] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [)][2][пҝҪ]


+ _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)(] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [)][2][пҝҪ]


_вҲ’_ ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[.]_


49



(A-14)


Then, using once more the inequalities (A-12),


_Nk вүӨ_ _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [[] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][]]


+ _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [[] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2][]]


_вҲ’_ ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+]


_вүӨвҲ’_ ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[<]_ [ 0] _[,]_


where in the second inequality we used once more that max _{Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [+1] _k_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [1] +1 _[} вүӨ]_ [0.]



(A-15)



(iii) Note that, since we already proved that _Оіtk <_ 0, proving that _Nk/Оіtk < вҲ’Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [a.s. whenever]

_Оұtk_ +1 _<_ 0 is equivalent to showing that _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ N][k]_ _[>]_ [ 0 a.s. whenever] _[ Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[<]_ [ 0. Define]


_ПҶ_ ( **ЛҶx** _,_ **ЛҶy** ) := _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _Оұt_ 1 _k,_ 1+1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ пҝҪ2 _вҲ’_ _ПҖt_ + _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶx]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 **[ЛҶy]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)]   

+ ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 **[ЛҶy]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [) + (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶx]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)]


_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2]


Notice that _ПҶ_ ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2][) =] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ N][k]_ [. Taking partial derivatives,]



_вҲӮПҶ_
_вҲӮ_ **ЛҶx** [=] _[ вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1




- - _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 **[ЛҶy]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ + _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



пҝҪ2
_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1



= _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



(A-16)

- _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶy]** + _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][.]_



_вҲӮПҶ_
_вҲӮ_ **ЛҶy** [=] _[ вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1




- - _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 **[ЛҶx]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] + _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1



пҝҪ2
_ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1



= _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



(A-17)

- _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶx]** + _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[.]_



Recall that by assumption _Оұtk_ +1 _<_ 0 a.s. and thus,


ГҜ
_Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [=][ E][пҝҪ] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_     - = E E [пҝҪ] _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1пҝҪ [пҝҪ] _Ftk_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



ГІ



= _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [+][ E][пҝҪ] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ +1 [= 0][пҝҪ][(1] _[ вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[.]_ (A-18)


50


Using the last inequality in (A-16), we obtain that


_вҲӮПҶ_
_tk_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [[(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ **[ЛҶy]** [] +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][.]_
_вҲӮ_ **ЛҶx** _[вүҘ]_ _[Оұ]_ [1+]


Therefore, using that ( _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [)][2] _[ вүӨ]_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2][ and max] _[{][Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[} вүӨ]_ [0, we have]


_вҲӮПҶ_  - r _, ВөвҲ’c_ [2]  - _вүҘ_ _Оұt_ 1+ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [[(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2][] +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_
_вҲӮ_ **ЛҶx**

(A-19)
_вүҘ_ _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вүҘ]_ [0] _[,]_


which implies that _ПҶ_ ( [r] _, Вө_ _[вҲ’]_
_c_ [2][) is a non-decreasing function of the first parameter. Thus,]


_ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[, Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2]         - _вүӨ_ _ПҶ_ ( _Вө_ + _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2][) =] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ N][k][.]_ (A-20)


Using (A-17), (A-18), and max _{Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[, Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[} вүӨ]_ [0,]


_вҲӮПҶ_ пҝҪ( _Вө_ + _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ r][ пҝҪ] [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [[] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2][] +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+]
_вҲӮ_ **ЛҶy**


_вүҘ_ _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вүҘ]_ [0] _[,]_


r
which shows that _ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [пҝҪ] is a nondecreasing function in the second argument. Using

that ( _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [)][2] _[ вүӨ]_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2][ and (A-20), we finally get that]


_ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] _[вүӨ]_ _[ПҶ]_ [пҝҪ][(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2] _[, Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2]        - _вүӨ_ _Оұt_ 0 _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ N][k][.]_ (A-21)


At this point, we only need to prove that 0 _вүӨ_ _ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ][. Evaluating, we have that]



_ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



Гҹ - _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 ( _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [)][2] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вҲ’]_ [1)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1)]


+ _Вө_ [+] _c_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1) +] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вҲ’]_ [1)]




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



в„ў



= _Вө_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][в„“]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)] _[,]_ (A-22)


51


where


        -         _в„“_ ( **ЛҶz** ) := _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 **ЛҶz** _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [(] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶz]** _[ вҲ’]_ [1)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1)]


+ **ЛҶz** ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1) +] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶz]** _[ вҲ’]_ [1)]


_вҲ’_ 2 **ЛҶz** _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[.]_


Due to (A-18), we have


_в„“_ (0) = _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1


= _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1

_вүҘвҲ’Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[>]_ [ 0] _[.]_ (A-23)


We shall prove that _dв„“/d_ **ЛҶz** _вүҘ_ 0, which will imply that _в„“_ ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)] _[ вүҘ]_ _[в„“]_ [(0)] _[ >]_ [ 0 and, finally, that]

_ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] _[>]_ [ 0 due to Equation (A-22). Finally, by using the previous equation together]


with (A-21) we get that


0 _< ПҶ_ [пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[Оі][t]_ _k_ [+] _[ N][k][,]_


and will conclude the proof.


It remains to show that _dв„“/d_ **ЛҶz** _вүҘ_ 0. Taking the derivative with respect to **ЛҶz**,


_dв„“_ _tk_ +1пҝҪ( _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _Оұt_ 1 _k,_ 1+1 [)][2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1)][пҝҪ]
_d_ **ЛҶz** [=] _[ Оұ]_ [0]

+ ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [1) +] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1


_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_


= _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [) +] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [ОЁ(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1))] _[,]_ (A-24)


where


ОЁ( **ЛҶz** ) := _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 **[ЛҶz]** [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] **[ЛҶz]** _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [+ (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1

(A-25)
+ ( _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[.]_


52


Due to (A-18), the first term of (A-24) is nonegative. It is also easy to see that the quadratic


function ОЁ attaining its minimum value over any interval [ _a, b_ ] at the endpoints since _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_

0. On the other hand, observe that _Оұtk_ +1( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ [1)] _[ вүҘ]_ _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 [1] [+] _tk_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [. Then, by]


taking conditional expectation with respect to _Ftk_ and using (A-12), we obtain the bounds


_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲЁ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вҲ§]_ [0] _[.]_ (A-26)


Therefore, to show that (A-24) is nonnegative, it suffices to check that


(1) ОЁ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲЁ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0] _[,]_ (2) ОЁ(( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вҲ§]_ [0)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0] _[.]_


To show (1), we consider the cases (a) _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вүҘ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [or (b)] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [.]

To show (2) above, we consider the cases (c) ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0; or (d)]

( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүӨ]_ [0.]

Suppose that (a) _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вүҘ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [. Then, in light of (A-18),]


             -             ОЁ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [) =] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 ( _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [) +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)]


= _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0] _[.]_


Similarly, (b) if _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вүҘ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [, then ОЁ(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0.]


Now, suppose that (c) _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вүҘ]_ [0. Then,]


ОЁ(0) = _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0] _[.]_


The only case left is when (d) _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ [0. Together with (A-18), we]


will have


_Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_ (A-27)


53


and, by rearranging terms,


ОЁ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [) = (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2][ +] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2]

_вҲ’_ (2 _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)]


=: Оһ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)] _[,]_


where


Оһ( **ЛҶz** ) = ( _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] **[ЛҶz]** [2] _[вҲ’]_ [(2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] **[ЛҶz]** [+] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2]


is a quadratic function, opening downward due to (A-18). Furthermore, at the lower and upper


bounds of (A-27), we have Оһ( _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [) = Оһ(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [) = 0. Therefore, Оһ(] **[ЛҶz]** [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0, for all]

**ЛҶz** _вҲҲ_ [пҝҪ] _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 _[,]_ [ (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][пҝҪ][. Finally, we conclude that ОЁ(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’][Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [) =]

Оһ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)] _[ вүҘ]_ [0 in the case (iv) as desired.]


_**Proof of Corollary 3.**_


Refer to the proof of Theorem 1. Denote the right hand side of Equation (A-5) as sup _LВұ_ _tk_ _[, L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [).]
_tk_ _[f]_ [(] _[L]_ [+]

It is easy to observe that _f_ ( _L_ [+] _tk_ _[, L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [) is a quadratic function of] _[ L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [and] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [. Setting the partial]

derivatives with respect to _L_ [+] _tk_ [and] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [equal to 0, we have that]


0 = _вҲӮf_ = 2 _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)] _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1пҝҪ _Вө_ + _cp_ [+] _[ h]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [(2] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _p_ [)][пҝҪ]
_вҲӮL_ [+] _tk_




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [+ 2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_

0 = _вҲӮf_ = 2 _ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)] _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [+] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1пҝҪ _ВөвҲ’cp_ _[вҲ’]_ _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [+] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _p_ [)][пҝҪ]
_вҲӮL_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_

_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+ 2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] _[.]_



(A-28)



Solving for _L_ [+] _tk_ [and] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [, we get that the unique stationary points] _[ L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ and _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ are given by



_L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ =



(1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



(2) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ + _tk_ _[,]_



_L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _вҲ’_ (1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_


54



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [+]



(A-29)
(3) _AвҲ’tk_ _[,]_


                       as pointed out in Eq. (22). To prove that the stationary point _L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—][, L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_


we apply the second derivative test. Indeed,




is the maximum of _f_,




_вҲӮ_ [2] _f_

_вҲӮ_ ~~[пҝҪ]~~ _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ ~~пҝҪ~~ 2







= 2 _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [)] _[ <]_ [ 0] _[,]_



because, due to Lemma 2, we have _Оұtk <_ 0 and, thus, _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ _[| F][t]_ _kвҲ’_ 1 _[,]_ [ 1] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ [= 1]] _[ вүӨ]_ [0. It remains]


to show that







пҝҪпҝҪ
_вҲӮ_ [2] _f_

_вҲӮ_ ~~[пҝҪ]~~ _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ ~~пҝҪ~~ 2



ГҘ2



ГҮ _вҲӮ_ [2] _f_
_вҲӮL_ [+] _tk_ _[вҲӮL]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_



_Bk_ =




_вҲӮ_ [2] _f_

_вҲӮ_ ~~[пҝҪ]~~ _L_ [+] _tk_ ~~пҝҪ~~ 2




_вҲ’_



= 4 _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ [4][пҝҪ] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ пҝҪ2 _>_ 0 _._ (A-30)


However, _Bk_ above is just _вҲ’_ 4 _Оіtk_, with _Оіtk_ defined as in (A-8), and it was shown in the proof of


Lemma 2 that _Оіtk <_ 0 (see ((A-13)). The proof is now complete.


_**Proof of Theorem 4.**_


Throughout, _Wti, Iti_, for _i_ = _k, . . ., N_ +1, are the cash holding and inventory processes resulting

from adopting an admissible placement strategy _L_ _[Вұ]_ _ti_ [,] _[ i]_ [ =] _[ k, . . ., N]_ [. Similarly, for] _[ i]_ [ =] _[ k]_ [+1] _[, . . ., N]_ [+1,]

_Wt_ _[вҲ—]_ _i_ _[, I]_ _t_ _[вҲ—]_ _i_ [are the resulting cash holding and inventory processes, starting from time] _[ t][k]_ [at the initial]

states _Wtk_ _, Itk_, when setting _L_ _[Вұ]_ _ti_ [=] _[ L]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _i_ _[,][вҲ—]_ [. First note that, for an arbitrary admissible placement]

strategy _L_ _[Вұ]_ _ti_ [,] _[ {][v]_ [(] _[t][i][, S][t]_ _i_ _[, W][t]_ _i_ _[, I][t]_ _i_ [)] _[}][i]_ [=] _[k,...,N]_ [+1][ is a supermartingale since]


E [пҝҪ] _v_ ( _ti_ +1 _, Sti_ +1 _, Wti_ +1 _, Iti_ +1) _|Fti_     - _вүӨ_ sup E [пҝҪ] _v_ ( _ti_ +1 _, Sti_ +1 _,_ _W_ [пҝҪ] _ti_ +1 _,_ _I_ [пҝҪ] _ti_ +1) _|Fti_     _L_                     - _[Вұ]_ _ti_


= _v_ ( _ti, Sti, Wti, Iti_ ) _,_ (A-31)


where above _W_ [пҝҪ] _ti_ +1 and _I_ [пҝҪ] _ti_ +1 are the time- _ti_ +1 cash holding and inventory for an arbitrary admissible

placement strategy _L_ [пҝҪ] _[Вұ]_ _ti_ [when][ пҝҪ] _Wti_ = _Wti_ and _I_ [пҝҪ] _ti_ = _Iti_ . The equation in (A-31) follows from (16)


and Corollary 3. That is, _Оұti, hti, gti_ are picked in order for (A-31) to hold true.


55


From the supermartingale condition, we then have that


_v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wtk_ _, Itk_ ) _вүҘ_ sup E[ _v_ ( _T, ST, WT, IT_ ) _|Ftk_ ]
( _L_ _[Вұ]_
_ti_ [)] _[k][вүӨ][i][вүӨ][N]_


= sup E[ _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] _[|F][t]_ _k_ []]
( _L_ _[Вұ]_
_ti_ [)] _[k][вүӨ][i][вүӨ][N]_


= _Vtk_ _._



(A-32)



The first equality in Eq. (A-32) holds because _v_ ( _T, ST, WT, IT_ ) = _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] [by the terminal]


conditions _ОұT_ = _вҲ’О», gT_ = 0 _, hT_ = 0.


Next we prove that _v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wtk_ _, Itk_ ) _вүӨ_ _Vtk_ . To this end, recall from (16) and Corollary 3 that

_Lt_ _[Вұ]_ _i_ _[,][вҲ—]_ are chosen so that


_v_ ( _ti, Sti, Wt_ _[вҲ—]_ _i_ _[, I]_ _t_ _[вҲ—]_ _i_ [) =][ E][[] _[v]_ [(] _[t][i]_ [+1] _[, S][t]_ _i_ +1 _[, W]_ _t_ _[ вҲ—]_ _i_ +1 _[, I]_ _t_ _[вҲ—]_ _i_ +1 [)] _[|F][t]_ _i_ []] _[,]_


for all _i_ = _k, . . ., N_ . Hence, recalling that we set _Wt_ _[вҲ—]_ _k_ [=] _[ W][t]_ _k_ [and] _[ I]_ _t_ _[вҲ—]_ _k_ [=] _[ I][t]_ _k_ [, by induction,]


_v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wtk_ _, Itk_ ) = _v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wt_ _[вҲ—]_ _k_ _[, I]_ _t_ _[вҲ—]_ _k_ [) =][ E][[] _[v]_ [(] _[t][N]_ [+1] _[, S][t]_ _N_ +1 _[, W]_ _t_ _[ вҲ—]_ _N_ +1 _[, I]_ _t_ _[вҲ—]_ _N_ +1 [)] _[|F][t]_ _k_ []]


= E[ _WT_ _[вҲ—]_ [+] _[ S][T]_ _[I]_ _T_ _[вҲ—]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[О»]_ [(] _[I]_ _T_ _[вҲ—]_ [)][2] _[|F][t]_ _k_ []] _[.]_


It also trivially follows that


E[ _WT_ _[вҲ—]_ [+] _[ S][T]_ _[I]_ _T_ _[вҲ—]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[О»]_ [(] _[I]_ _T_ _[вҲ—]_ [)][2] _[|F][t]_ _k_ []] _[ вүӨ]_ sup E[ _WT_ + _ST IT вҲ’_ _О»IT_ [2] _[|F][t]_ _k_ [] =] _[ V][t]_ _k_ _[.]_
( _L_ _[Вұ]_
_ti_ [)] _[k][вүӨ][i][вүӨ][N]_


We then conclude that _v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wtk_ _, Itk_ ) _вүӨ_ _Vtk_, which combined with (A-32) implies that


_v_ ( _tk, Stk_ _, Wtk_ _, Itk_ ) = _Vtk_ .


**A.2** **Proofs of Section 2.3: Optimal Strategy for a General Midprice**


_**Proof of Theorem 5.**_


For simplicity, we write _ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [=] _[ ПҒ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [and] _[ ПҲ]_ _k_ _[Вұ]_ [=] _[ ПҲ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [. For future reference, define][ пҝҪ] _[h]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [,][ пҝҪ] _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [, and]

- _h_ [1] _tk_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [using the notation (3). Let us start by writing the optimization problem (15) in terms of the]


56


ansatz (28):


_Wtk_ + _Оұtk_ _It_ [2] _k_ [+] _[S][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [=] sup E[ _Wtk_ +1 + _Оұtk_ +1 _It_ [2] _k_ +1 [+] _[ S][t]_ _k_ +1 _[I][t]_ _k_ +1 [+][ пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _k_ +1 _[I][t]_ _k_ +1 _[| F][t]_ _k_ []] _[.]_
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_

(A-33)


We will prove the result by backwards induction. Consider the following statements:


(i) For _Оҙ вҲҲ{_ + _, вҲ’}_, we have:


E [пҝҪпҝҪ] _htk_ +1 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_            - = пҝҪ _h_ 1 _tkОҙ_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ][,]_ (A-34)


E [пҝҪпҝҪ] _htk_ +1 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_           - = пҝҪ _h_ 1 _tkОҙ_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_ _[.]_ (A-35)


(ii) The optimal controls _L_ [пҝҪ] _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ that solve (A-33) under dynamics (11) with terminal conditions

_ОұtN_ +1 = _вҲ’О»_ and [пҝҪ] _htN_ +1 = 0 are given by



_L_ - [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ =



(1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



(2) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_ _[,]_ (A-36)



(2) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_ _[,]_ _L_ - _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = _вҲ’_



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_



where



(2) _A_ - _Вұtk_ [=] - _h_ [1] _tk_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[ПҒ]_ _k_ _[Вұ]_ _[вҲ’]_ [пҝҪ] _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ“]_ +1 _[ПҲ]_ _k_ _[Вұ]_ _,_
2 _Оіtk_



(3) _A_ - _Вұtk_ [=]



(3) _Вұ_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҲ]_ _k_ _[Вұ]_
_Atk_ _[Вұ]_ _[ПҒ][Вұ]_ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_ _[,]_ (A-37)
2 _Оіtk_



whereas [(1)] _A_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ [and][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [are the same as in Theorem 1.]


(iii) The random variables [пҝҪ] _htk_ satisfy the following iterative equation,



(3) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ [+] (2) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ - [пҝҪ] + 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ - _Оҙ_



(3) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ [+]




  
- _htk_ = пҝҪ _h_ [0] _tk_ +1 [+] _ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_





2пҝҪ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ пҝҪпҝҪ(1) _AОҙtk_  - _Оҙ_



(2) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ 

(A-38)




_вҲ’_ 2 _ОҙОұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_ [+] _[ Оҙ]_ (1) _AОҙtk_ - _Вө_ _[Оҙ]_ _cp_ [+] _[ Оҙ]_ [пҝҪ] _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ - [пҝҪ]



(3) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(1) _AвҲ’tk_



(2) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_ [+]




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_





(1) _A_ + _tk_







(2) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_





_вҲ’_







(3) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_ 


+ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_


57




   
(1) _A_ + _tk_ _ВөВө_ _[вҲ’]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_



(1) _A_ + _tk_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] [+]







(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [+ 1] - _._



+



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ _ВөВө_ [+] _cp_ [+] _c_ _вҲ’_


while


_g_ - _tk_ = пҝҪ _gt_ [0] _k_ +1 [+] - _ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _k_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



пҝҪпҝҪ пҝҪпҝҪ
_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_



(3) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ [+] _[ Оҙ]_ (2) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ пҝҪ2 + _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оҙ]_ [ пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө][Оҙ]_ _cp_




 - пҝҪпҝҪ
+ _Вө_ _[Оҙ]_ _cp_ [+] _[ Оҙ]_ [пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө][Оҙ]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_



(3) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ [+ (] _[Оҙ]_



(2) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ [)] - [пҝҪ]



(2) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_ [+]




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



пҝҪпҝҪ



(2) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_







(A-39)



(3) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_



пҝҪпҝҪ



(3) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_







_cp_

_вҲ’_ _[Вө]_ [+]
_Вө_ [+] _c_







(3) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(2) _A_ - _вҲ’tk_




- _cp_ 
_вҲ’_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_



(2) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_ [+]



(3) _A_ пҝҪ+ _tk_




- _cp_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _cp_
+ _[Вө]_ [+]
_Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+]



(3) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ [+]



ГІ



+ вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[k]_ _k_



ГҜпҝҪ



(2) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ - _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вҲ’]_ пҝҪ(3) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ _[вҲ’]_



(2) _A_ - _Оҙtk_ - _ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] [+] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_



(iv) Equation (29) holds true (at time _tk_ ) and the random variables _ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [and] _[ ПҲ]_ _k_ _[Вұ]_ [, as defined in]


Equations (17), are _Ftk_ _вҲ’_ measurable while the random variables _Оҫk_ +1 given by Eq. (30) are


_Ftk_ +1 _вҲ’_ measurable.


To start, note that the statement (i) is immediate for _k_ = _N_ due to the terminal condition


on _h_ . The strategy that we will employ to finish the proof is the following: we will show that if

[пҝҪ]


statement (i) holds true for _k_ = _j, j_ + 1 _, . . ., N_, then statements (ii), (iii), and (iv) will hold true


for _k_ = _j_ . In the final step, we prove that the statement (i) holds true for _k_ = _j вҲ’_ 1 if (i)-(iv) holds


for _k_ = _j_ .


Let us start with the first step described in the previous paragraph. Assume that statement


(i) is true for _k_ = _j, j_ + 1 _, . . ., N_ . By substituting the values of _Wtj_ +1 and _Itj_ +1 given by Equation


58


(11)-(12) into the optimization problem (A-33) with _k_ = _j_ we get,



пҝҪпҝҪ



_Vtj_ = sup E
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _j_



1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1пҝҪ _вҲ’_ _cОҙtj_ +1 [(] _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][2][ + (] _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[S][t]_ _j_ [)] _[L][Оҙ]_ _tj_ [+] _[ Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[S][t]_ _j_  _Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



+ _Оұtj_ +1


+ _Stj_ +1



Гҹ _It_ [2] _j_ [+] - 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1пҝҪ( _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [)][2][(] _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)][2][ +][ пҝҪ][2] _[ОҙI][t]_ _j_ _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ [2(] _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [)][2] _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪ _LОҙtj_

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_


                       + ( _c_ _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[ОҙI][t]_ _j_ _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1


в„ў
+ 2 1 [+] _tj_ +1 [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’][L]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [+] _[ p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [+] _[ p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[вҲ’]_ _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [)]


ГҜ ГІ

 _Itj_ + 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’][Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [+] _[ Оҙc]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [)]

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



(A-40)





_._




  + [пҝҪ] _htj_ +1 _Itj_ + 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 [(] _[вҲ’][Оҙ]_ [пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _j_ +1 _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [+] _[ Оҙ]_ [пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _j_ +1 _[c][Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ [) +][ пҝҪ] _[g][t]_ _j_ +1

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



_Ftj_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



Computing the conditional expectations on the right-hand side using statement (i) and the tech

niques used in the proof of Theorem 1, we get that


_Оұtj_ _It_ [2] _j_ [+] _[ S][t]_ _j_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[h][t]_ _j_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[g][t]_ _j_



= sup
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _j_



Гҹ

пҝҪпҝҪ _ПҖt_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 ( _Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [)(] _[L][Оҙ]_ _tj_ [)][2][ +][ пҝҪ] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_ [+] _[ ОҙВө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _h_ 1 _tjОҙ_ +1 [+ вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _j_ _[j]_ - + _Оұt_ 1 _jОҙ_ +1 [(2] _[ОҙВө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ][I][t]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [)][пҝҪ] _[L]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_

_Оҙ_ = _Вұ_



1 _Оҙ_                        - [в„ў]
+ _Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [2] _p_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[ОҙВө]_ _cp_ _[Оҙ]_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[ОҙВө][Оҙ]_ _cp_ пҝҪпҝҪ _htj_ +1 [+ вҲҶ] _t_ _[t]_ _j_ _[j]_


       -       + 2 _Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _Вө_ [+] _cp_ _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [+] _[ Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ [+] _tj_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][L]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _cp_ [+] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _cp_


                 


(A-41)



+ _Оұt_ [0] _j_ +1 _[I]_ _t_ [2] _j_ [+] _[ I][t]_ _j_ _[S][t]_ _j_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[h]_ _t_ [0] _j_ +1 _[I][t]_ _j_ [+ вҲҶ] _t_ _[t][j]_ _j_ _[I][t]_ _j_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[g]_ [ 0] _tj_ +1



_._



Then, since the function of the right-hand side is a quadratic function of the controls _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tj_ [, it can be]


shown, as in the proof Theorem 1, that the optimal controls are the ones given in statement (ii)


with _k_ = _j_ . Furthermore, after plugging in the optimal controls; equating the coefficients of _Itj_ on


both sides; and the independent terms on both sides, we obtain statement (iii).


59


To obtain statement (iv), notice that by plugging the expression for (2) _AВұtj_ [, given by Equation]


(18), into the Equation (20), we can rewrite _htj_ as:


_htj_ = E( _htj_ +1 _Оҫj_ +1 _|Ftj_ ) + _Zj_



_N_


E( _Zu_

_u_ = _j_



_u_


_Оҫi|Ftj_ ) (A-42)

_i_ = _j_ +1



= E( _htN_ +1



_N_


_Оҫu_ +1 _|Ftk_ ) +
_u_ = _j_



where _{Zk}_ _[N]_ _k_ =1 [is a collection of] _[ H]_ _t_ _[П–]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [measurable random variables. In the same fashion, by plugging]


the quantities defined in Equation (A-37) into Equation (A-38), we can rewrite [пҝҪ] _htj_ as:



пЈ®



_u_ +1

 пЈ°



_Оҫi|Ftj_

_i_ = _j_ +1




- _htj_ = E [пҝҪ] ( _htj_ +1 + вҲҶ _t_ _[t][j]_ _j_ [)] _[Оҫ][j]_ [+1] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ - + _Zj_ = _htu_ +



_N_


вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[j]_ _u_ [E]
_u_ = _j_



пЈ№


пЈ» _._ (A-43)



Next, by substituting the value of [пҝҪ] _htj_ in Equation (A-43) into the term [(2)] _A_ [пҝҪ] _[Вұ]_ _tj_ [, as defined in Equation]

(A-37), and then plugging this equivalent formula along with (3) _A_ - _Вұtu_ [, as given by Equation (A-37)]

into Equation (A-36), we obtain Equation (29). To verify the measurability of _ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ [and] _[ ПҲ]_ _j_ _[Вұ]_ [, notice]

that by definition (see Equations (8)-(6)), the random variables _ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ +1 _[, ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) and] _[ Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ _[m]_ _p_ _[n]_ [ are]

_Fj_ -measurable. Also, by definition, (see Equation (3)) the random variables _{Оұt_ [0] _j_ +1 _[}][,][ {][Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _j_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[}]_ [ and]

_{Оұt_ [1] _j_ _[,]_ +1 [1] _[}]_ [ are also] _[ F][t]_ _j_ [-measurable.] All of this implies that _{ПҒ_ _[Вұ]_ _j_ _[}]_ [ and] _[ {][ПҲ]_ _j_ _[Вұ][}]_ [ are] _[ F][t]_ _j_ _[вҲ’]_ [measurable.]

However, due to the presence of the random variables 1 [+] _tj_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 [, the random variables] _[ Оҫ][j]_ [+1][ cannot]


be _Ftj_ -measurable but they are certainly _Ftj_ +1 _вҲ’_ measurable.


Finally, all what is left is to prove that if statements (i)-(iv) hold true for _k_ = _j_ +1 _, j_ +2 _, . . ., N_,


then statement (i) holds true for _k_ = _j_ . Indeed, since Equations (A-34) and (A-35) hold for


_k_ = _j_ + 1 _, . . ., N_, then Equation (A-43) holds for _k_ = _j_ + 1. That is,



_Оҫu|Ftj_ +1) _._

_u_ = _j_ +2



_i_ +1





- _htj_ +1 = _htj_ +1 +





вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[j]_ _i_ [+1] E(
_i_ = _j_ +1



_N_




60


Multiplying both sides by 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 [and taking the conditional expectation with respect to] _[ F][t]_ _j_ [, we]


have that



_Ftj_ +1
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ




- [пЈ®]







Г©пЈ№


1 _[Оҙ]_
пЈ» _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1



Г‘
_i_ +1

 
_Оҫu_

_u_ = _j_ +2



E [пҝҪпҝҪ] _htj_ +1 1 _[Оҙ]_ _tj_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ - = E



пЈ° _htj_ +1 +



_N_


вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[j]_ _i_ [+1] E
_i_ = _j_ +1



_Ftj_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



_Ftj_ +1
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ




      
ГЈ [пҝҪ]
_Ftj_ _,_ 1 _Оҙtj_ +1 [= 1]
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ







_i_ +1
Г…

 E _Оҫu_


_u_ = _j_ +2



_i_ +1
Г…

 E







= _h_ [1] _tj_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_ [+] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ]_


= [пҝҪ] _h_ [1] _tj_ _[Оҙ]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Оҙ]_ _j_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[Оҙ][.]_





вҲҶ _[t]_ _t_ _[j]_ _i_ [E]
_i_ = _j_ +1



_N_




where we used that E Г®пҝҪ _iu_ +1= _j_ +2 _[Оҫ][u][|F][t]_ _j_ +1Гі is an _Ht_ _[П–]_ _j_ +1 [-measurable random variable. Thus, we have]


that Equation (A-34) holds for _k_ = _j_ . Similarly we can prove Equation (A-35) holds for _k_ = _j_,


which concludes the proof.


**A.3** **Proofs of Section 2.4: Admissibility of the Optimal Strategy**


_**Proof of Proposition 6.**_ Let us define the numerators of [(1)] _A_ [+] _tk_ [and][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [in (18) as] _[ ОІ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [and] _[ О·]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [,]


respectively. First, we will prove the result when the price process is a martingale. In this case, all


we need to show is that



_L_ [+] _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ + _L_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ = ((1) _A_ + _tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(1) _AвҲ’tk_ [)] _[I][t]_ _k_ [+ (] (2) _A_ + _tk_ _[вҲ’]_



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [) + (] (3) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(2) _AвҲ’tk_ [) + (]



(3) _AвҲ’tk_ [)] _[ >]_ [ 0] _[.]_



First we prove that, under the Condition (2) (Equation (34)) and Condition (4) of Proposition 6,


_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [. Indeed, by Eqs. (A-10) and (A-11),]



+1(1 _,_ 1)

+ E [пҝҪ] _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0][пҝҪ] [ГҮ]
_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1

+1(1 _,_ 1)

+ E [пҝҪ] _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1][пҝҪ] [ГҮ]
_ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



_ПҖt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



_,_


_._



_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1)

[+]



1 _вҲ’_ _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



_ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1



ГҘ


ГҘ



_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1)

_[вҲ’]_



1 _вҲ’_ _[ПҖ][t][k]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1)]



Now, recall that _Оұtk_ +1 is _Ht_ _[П–]_ _k_ +1 [-measurable (see Theorem 1), and, by assumption,] _[ Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 [depends on]


1 [+] _tk_ +1 [and] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [only through] [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [. This means that] _[ Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 [= ОҰ][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_


for some function ОҰ. It follows that


E [пҝҪ] _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0][пҝҪ] [= ОҰ][пҝҪ][1 + 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ - = EпҝҪ _Оұtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ _,_ 1 + _tk_ +1 [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1][пҝҪ] _[.]_


61


Since _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [, we then conclude that] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [. By doing the same computations as in]


the set of Equations A-9, we can obtain the analogous relations to Equations (A-10) and (A-11)


for _htk_ +1 and these can be used to show that _h_ [1+] _tk_ [=] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [in the same way as above.]

Let _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 [:=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [and] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [:=] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [. Since] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [, it follows that]


_ОІt_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ОІ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [)][2][(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2][)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Вө]_ _c_ [+][(] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)] = 0 _._

_О·t_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[О·]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2][)] _[ вҲ’]_ _[h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][Вө]_ _c_ [+][(] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)= 0] _[,]_


implying that [(1)] _A_ [+] _tk_ _[вҲ’]_ [(1)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [= 0 and][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [(2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [= 0. Thus, it suffice to show that][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+][(3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[>]_ [ 0. By]

assumption (4) of Proposition 6, _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _cp_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ][Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ]_ [and] _[ Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _p_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[Вұ]_ [2] _[Вө]_ _p_ _[Вұ]_ [and, thus, we can write][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_


as



(3) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) _AвҲ’tk_ [=] 1
2 _Оіtk_




- _Вө_ + _p_ [О“][+][пҝҪ] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] - + _ВөвҲ’p_ [О“] _[вҲ’]_ [пҝҪ] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] пҝҪпҝҪ _,_



where


пҝҪ2 +
О“ [+] ( **x** _,_ **y** ) = _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 **[y]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 **[x]** [) + 2][пҝҪ] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _вҲ’_ _ПҖtk_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)][2] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][,]_


пҝҪ2 _вҲ’_
О“ _[вҲ’]_ ( **x** _,_ **y** ) = _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 **[x]** _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 **[y]** [) + 2][пҝҪ] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _вҲ’_ _ПҖtk_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[.]_


Recall from (A-13) that _Оіtk <_ 0 and, thus, it remains to show that the numerator _N_ ( [(3)] _A_ [+] _tk_ [+] [(3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [) =]

_Вө_ [+] _p_ [О“][+][пҝҪ] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] - + _ВөвҲ’p_ [О“] _[вҲ’]_ [пҝҪ] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] - is also negative. Since О“+ is a linear function of **y**, _ВөвҲ’c_ [2] _[ вүҘ]_ [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2]

and, by Lemma 2, _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[<]_ [ 0, we have that]


_вҲӮ_
= _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2][)] _[ <]_ [ 0] _[.]_
_вҲӮ_ **y** [О“][+][(] **[x]** _[,]_ **[ y]** [)] пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ **x** = _Вө_ [+]
_c_ [2]


                    From here, it follows that for every **x** _вҲҲ_ R, О“ [+][пҝҪ] **x** _, Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _вүӨ_ О“ [+][пҝҪ] **x** _,_ ( _Вө_ _[вҲ’]_ _c_ [)][2][пҝҪ] . Similarly,


_вҲӮвҲӮ_ **x** [О“][+][(] **[x]** _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][) =] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1пҝҪ _Оұt_ 1 _k_ +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_           - _<_ 0 _,_


62


          implying that О“ [+][пҝҪ] _Вө_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _вүӨ_ О“ [+][пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] . Note




_Вө_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [+ 2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+]

~~пҝҪ~~ ~~пҝҪпҝҪ~~ ~~пҝҪ~~
(II)



О“ [+][пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] = _Вө_ [+] _c_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_



Гҹ 2 ( _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1))][2] _[ вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1

~~пҝҪ~~ ~~пҝҪпҝҪ~~ ~~пҝҪ~~
(I)



в„ў
_._





_вҲ’_ _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1



+ _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1




_Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Вө]_ [+] _c_

~~пҝҪ~~ ~~пҝҪпҝҪ~~ (III)



By Equation (A-12), ( _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1))][2] _[ вүӨ]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [, implying that the term (I) above is]


negative. Further, by Lemma 2, we know that _Оұtk_ +1 _<_ 0 and, thus, the term (II) above is also


negative. Finally, by using our assumption (33) and Eq. (A-12), we can conclude that the term


                    (III) above also negative. It follows that О“ [+][пҝҪ] _Вө_ [+] _c_ [2] _[, Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _вүӨ_ О“ [+][пҝҪ] ( _Вө_ [+] _c_ [)][2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] _<_ 0. Similarly, we can

show that О“ _[вҲ’]_ [пҝҪ] _Вө_ [+] _c_ [2] _[,]_ [ (] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2][пҝҪ] _<_ 0 and conclude that _N_ ( [(3)] _A_ [+] _tk_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)] _[ <]_ [ 0.]


For the general midprice dynamics, we need to recall Eqs. (17). Then, under our conditions (1)
(4), we have trivially that _ПҒ_ [+] _k_ [=] _[ ПҒ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [and] _[ ПҲ]_ _k_ [+] [=] _[ ПҲ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [. It then follows from Eq. (29) that][ пҝҪ] _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ [+][ пҝҪ] _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ =

_Lt_ [+] _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ + _Lt_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[,][вҲ—]_ _>_ 0, as we have already shown. This concludes the general dynamics of the midprice


process.


_**Proof of Corollary 7.**_ The proof follows along the same lines as the one of Proposition 6. As


before, since _Оұtk_ +1 depends on 1 [+] _tk_ [and] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [only through] [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [,]


_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [0] +1 [=][ E][пҝҪ] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 0][пҝҪ] [=][ E][пҝҪ] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[|F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [= 1][пҝҪ] [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[,]_


and, thus, recalling (A-10)-(A-11), it follows that _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [when] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) = 0. Similarly,]

_h_ [1+] _tk_ +1 [=] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [and we can denote] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [:=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [and] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 [:=] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [. Since] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) = 0,] _[ Вө]_ [+] _c_ [=] _[ Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_

and _Вө_ [+] _c_ [2][ =] _[ Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2][, it also follows that] _[ ОІ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[ОІ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [= 0 and] _[ О·]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ _[О·]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [= 0, implying that][ (1)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [(1)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [= 0]

and [(2)] _A_ [+] _tk_ _[вҲ’]_ [(2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [= 0. We are only left to prove that][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[>]_ [ 0, but as the denominator is]

negative, we only need to prove that its numerator, denoted by _N_ ( [(3)] _A_ [+] _tk_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [), is also negative.]


However, under our conditions, we have that



_N_ ((3) _A_ + _tk_ [+]



(3) _вҲ’_ - 1 - [ГҜ] - + - _вҲ’_ - [ГІ]
_Atk_ [) =] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _Оұtk_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө][c]_ _Вөcp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _p_ + пҝҪ _Вөcp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _p_ _,_


63


which is negative because _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө][c]_ _[<]_ [ 0 (since] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ [0), and each of the terms inside the]


brackets above are positive. For the general midprice dynamics notice that our conditions and the


definitions (17) readily imply that _ПҒ_ [+] _k_ [=] _[ ПҒ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [and] _[ ПҲ]_ _k_ [+] [=] _[ ПҲ]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [= 0, and the proof follows as in the proof]


of Proposition 6.


_**Proof of Lemma 8.**_ The proof will done by backwards induction. We only give the details


for _{Оұtk_ _}_ _[N]_ _k_ =1 [+1] [(the proof for] _[ {][h][t]_ _k_ _[}][N]_ _k_ =1 [+1] [is very similar). To start, note that at time] _[ k]_ [ =] _[ N]_ [ + 1,]


_ОұtN_ +1 = _вҲ’О»_ and, hence, it trivially satisfies the condition. For the inductive step, assume that the

lemma holds for _j_ = _k_ + 1. We will now proceed to prove that _Оұtk_ depends on _**e**_ [+] _tk_ _[,]_ _**[e]**_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [only thorugh]

_**e**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [. By Equation (A-7),] _[ Оұ][t]_ _k_ [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [+] _[ N][k][/Оі][t]_ _k_ [with]


_Nk_ = ( _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [) + (] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’][ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)][2] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)]




_вҲ’_ 2 _Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [(] _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)][2] _[,]_

_Оіtk_ = [пҝҪ] _ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [+] _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ пҝҪ2 _вҲ’_ _ПҖt_ + _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ [+] _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ [+][)(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[Вө][вҲ’]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ [)] _[.]_



(A-44)



By assumption, _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 [,] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [, and] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) are functions of] _**[e]**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [. Then, we only need to show]

that _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [, and] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [have the same property. By the induction hypothesis, we have]


that _Оұtk_ +1 is of the form:


_Оұtk_ +1 = ОҰ( _**e**_ [+] _tk_ +1 [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ +1 [) = ОҰ][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_         - _,_


for a function ОҰ : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _,_ 2 _}_ _[П–]_ _вҶ’_ R. Thus, using (A-4) and (6),


_Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[| F][t]_ _k_ []]



1

- ОҰ Г„ _u_ + _v,_ 1 [+] _tk_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[. . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ ГӨ P - 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [=] _[ u,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ v]_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _HtП–k_ - _,_

_v_ =0


64



=



1



_u_ =0


implying that _Оұt_ [0] _k_ +1 [is a function of] _**[e]**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [in light of (9). We can similarly deal with] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [,]

and _Оұt_ [11] _k_ +1 [using the expressions in (A-6). For instance,]


_Оұt_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=][ E][[] _[Оұ][t]_ _k_ +1 _[| F][t]_ _k_ _[,]_ [ 1] [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1]]

=    - ОҰ(1 + _в„“,_ 1 [+] _tk_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)][P][пҝҪ] [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ в„“]_ пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ _,_ 1 + _tk_ +1 [= 1][пҝҪ]

_в„“вҲҲ{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_



_в„“вҲҲ{_ пҝҪ0 _,_ 1 _}_ ОҰ(1 + _в„“,_ 1 [+] _tk_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] P [пҝҪ] 1 [+] _tk_ P+1 ~~[пҝҪ]~~ 1 [= 1][+] _tk_ +1 _[,]_ [ 1] [= 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 ~~пҝҪ~~ - _H_ [=] _tП–k_ _[ в„“]_ ~~пҝҪ~~ пҝҪпҝҪ _HtП–j_ 



 =



_,_
P ~~[пҝҪ]~~ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 [= 1] ~~пҝҪ~~ - _HtП–k_ ~~пҝҪ~~



which now is evident that is a function of _**e**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [.]


**A.4** **Proofs of Section 2.5: Inventory Analysis of the optimal strategy**


_**Proof of Proposition 9.**_ For simplicity, we omit вҖҳ*вҖҷ when referring to the optimal strategies _L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[,][вҲ—]_ [.]


By Eq. (11) and Corollary 3, we have that


_Itk_ +1 = _Itk вҲ’_ 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [) +] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [(] _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [)]


with _L_ [+] _tk_ [=] (1) _A_ + _tk_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+][ (2)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [and] _[ L]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [=] _[ вҲ’]_ [(1)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ _[вҲ’]_ [(2)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [+][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [.] Under the condition


_ПҖtk_ +1(1 _,_ 1) = 0, the coefficients simplify to



(1) _AВұtk_ [=] _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _,_
_Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2]



(2) _AВұtk_ [=] _h_ [1] _tk_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _,_

2 _Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2]



(3) _AВұtk_ [=] _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1

2



_Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _cp_ _[вҲ’]_ [2] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2] _p_
_._
_Вө_ _[Вұ]_ _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[Вө][Вұ]_ _c_ [2]



As explained in the proof of Corollary 7, (1) _A_ + _tk_ [=] (1) _AвҲ’tk_ [,] (2) _A_ + _tk_ [=] (2) _AвҲ’tk_ [,] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [, and] _[ h]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 [=]

_h_ [1] _tk_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 [. In particular, we also have][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ [+] _k_ [=][ (3)] _[A]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ [. Hereafter, we omit] _[ Вұ]_ [ in the superscripts of][ (] _[в„“]_ [)] _[A]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ [,]

_Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [,] _[ h]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [, etc. Furthermore, since] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [=] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [, we can see that (20) simplifies to]







_htk_ = _h_ [0] _tk_ +1 [+ 2] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1





 -  2 _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2] _[ вҲ’]_ _[Вө][c]_



(1) _Atk_ _h_ 1 _tk_ +1 _[Вө][c]_



(1) _Atk_



(2) _Atk_ + 2 _Оұt_ 1 _k_ +1 _[Вө][c]_ (2) _AОҙtk_ [+]



_Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2]
= _h_ [0] _tk_ +1 [+ 2] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 _tk_ +1 _[,]_
_Вөc вҲ’_ _Оұt_ [1] _k_ +1 _[Вө]_ _c_ [2] _[h]_ [1]


which, combined with the condition _htN_ +1 = 0, implies that _htk вүЎ_ 0 and, thus, [(2)] _A_ [+] _tk_ _[вүЎ]_ [0, for all] _[ k]_ [.]


65


We can then write


where




      _Itk_ +1 = _Оҫtk_ +1 + 1 + _О·tk_ +1



(1) _Atk_ - _Itk_ _,_



_О·tk_ +1 := 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[,]_



_Оҫtk_ +1 := ( 1 [+] _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] (3) _Atk вҲ’_ ( 1 + _tk_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [)] _[.]_



Since E[ _Оҫtk_ +1 _|Ftk_ ] = 0 and E[ _О·tk_ +1 _|Ftk_ ] = 2 _ПҖtk_ +1 _Вөc_, we can then conclude (36)-(i).


For (36)-(ii), first note that, by simple induction, we have that, when _I_ 0 = 0,



_k_


(1 + _О·tв„“_ +1

_в„“_ = _j_



_Itk_ +1 =



_k_ +1


_Оҫtj_

_j_ =1



(1) _Atв„“_ ) _,_ (A-45)



under the usual convention that [пҝҪ] _в„“_ _[k]_ = _k_ +1 [= 1. Next, we claim that, for any] _[ i]_ [, there is a function]

ОҰ _i_ : _{_ 0 _,_ 1 _,_ 2 _}_ _[П–]_ _вҶ’_ R such that







E




- _k_

 
(1 + _О·tв„“_ +1

_в„“_ = _i_



(1) _Atв„“_ ) _Fti_

пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



_Fti_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



= ОҰ _i_ - _**e**_ + _ti_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _ti_ - _._ (A-46)



Indeed, as shown in the proof of Lemma 8, _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 [are functions of] _**[e]**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [and, thus,] (1) _Atk_ =

ОЁ _k_ ( _**e**_ [+] _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [), for some function ОЁ] _[k]_ [. Then, by conditioning on] [ 1] _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [and] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [,]



E [пҝҪ] (1 + _О·tk_ +1



(1) _Atk_ )пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ - = 1 + 2 _ВөcПҖtk_ +1ОЁ _k_ ( _**e**_ + _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ [) =: ОҰ] _[k]_ - _**e**_ + _tk_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tk_ - _._



Suppose (A-46) holds for _i_ = _j_ + 1. Then,



(1 + _О·tв„“_ +1

_в„“_ = _j_ +1



пЈ®



пЈ®


пЈ° (1 + _О·tj_ +1 (1) _Atj_ )E



пЈ®



_k_

 пЈ°



пЈ№


пЈ»



пЈ№


пЈ» = E



пЈ№



_Ftj_
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



пЈ»



(1) _Atв„“_ ) _Ftj_

пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



(1) _Atв„“_ ) _Ftj_ +1

пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



E



_k_

 пЈ°



(1 + _О·tв„“_ +1

_в„“_ = _j_



= E - (1 + _О·tj_ +1 (1) _Atj_ )ОҰ _j_ +1 Г„ _**e**_ [+] _tj_ +1 [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ +1ГӨ [пҝҪ] пҝҪпҝҪ _Ftj_ 

= 2(1 + 2 _Вөc_ ОЁ _j_ ( _**e**_ [+] _tj_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ [))ОҰ] _[j]_ [+1][(1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _j_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1

+ ОҰ _j_ +1(0 _,_ 1 [+] _tj_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +2 _вҲ’П–_ [)(1] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [)] _[,]_


66


Г„ ГӨ
which is clearly of the form ОҰ _j_ _**e**_ [+] _tj_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ . This shows the validity of (A-46).


We are now ready to show the result:



пЈ®



(1) _Atв„“_ ) _FtjвҲ’_ 1

пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



_FtjвҲ’_ 1
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



пЈ№


пЈ»



E



пЈ®


пЈ° _Оҫtj_


пЈ®



_k_


(1 + _О·tв„“_ +1

_в„“_ = _j_



_FtjвҲ’_ 1
пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



пЈ№


пЈ»



пЈ№



_k_

 пЈ°



(1 + _О·tв„“_ +1

_в„“_ = _j_



(1) _Atв„“_ ) _Ftj_

пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ



= E



пЈ° _Оҫtj_ E



пЈ»




     - Г„ ГӨ [пҝҪ]     = E _Оҫtj_ ОҰ _j_ _**e**_ [+] _tj_ [+] _**[e]**_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1


Г„ Г® + Гі Г® + ГіГӨ
= E _Оҫtj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 _tj_ [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [= 0] + E _Оҫtj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 _tj_ [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [= 1]

_Г—_ ОҰ _j_ (1 _,_ 1 [+] _tjвҲ’_ 1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _jвҲ’_ 1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _вҲ’П–_ [)] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_

+ E Г® _Оҫtj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 + _tj_ [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [= 0] Гі ОҰ _j_ (0 _,_ 1 [+] _tjвҲ’_ 1 [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _jвҲ’_ 1 _[, . . .,]_ [ 1] _t_ [+] _j_ +1 _вҲ’П–_ [+] [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ +1 _вҲ’П–_ [)(1] _[ вҲ’]_ [2] _[ПҖ][t]_ _j_ +1 [)] _[,]_


which, recalling that _Оҫtj_ := ( 1 [+] _tj_ _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[вҲ’]_ [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [)][(3)] _[A][t]_ _jвҲ’_ 1 _[вҲ’]_ [(] [1] _t_ [+] _j_ _[c]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ _[вҲ’]_ [1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[c]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [), equals to 0 because]

E Г® _Оҫtj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 + _tj_ [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [= 0] Гі = 0 and



E Г® _Оҫtj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 + _tj_ [= 1] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [= 0] Гі = E - _c_ [+] _tj_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 + _tj_ [= 1] 


(3) _AtjвҲ’_ 1 _вҲ’_ E - _c_ [+] _tj_ _[p]_ _t_ [+] _j_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 + _tj_ [= 1] 


= _Вөc_ (3) _AtjвҲ’_ 1 _вҲ’_ _Вөcp_



E Г® _Оҫtj_ пҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 + _tj_ [= 0] _[,]_ [ 1] _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ [= 1] Гі = _вҲ’_ E - _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 _вҲ’tj_ [= 1] 


(3) - _вҲ’_ _AtjвҲ’_ 1 + E _c_ _[вҲ’]_ _tj_ _[p]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _j_ пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _FtjвҲ’_ 1 _,_ 1 _tj_ [= 1]



= _вҲ’Вөc_ (3) _AtjвҲ’_ 1 + _Вөcp._



We then conclude that E Г® _Оҫtj_ - _kв„“_ = _j_ [(1 +] _[ О·][t]_ _в„“_ +1



(1) _Atв„“_ )Гі = 0 and, thus, in light of the representation



(A-45), we conclude that E [пҝҪ] _Itk_ +1пҝҪ = 0, for any _k_ .


67


**A.5** **Proofs of Section 2.6: Running inventory penalization**


_**Proof of Theorem 10.**_ Plugging the ansatz (40) into 39, we arrive to the equation



( _П•_ ) _gtk_



_Wtk_ +



( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ _It_ 2 _k_ [+] _[ S][t]_ _k_ _[I][t]_ _k_ [+]



( _П•_ ) _htk_ _Itk_ +




      = sup E _Wtk_ +1 +
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_



(A-47)



( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ +1 _It_ 2 _k_ +1 [+] _[ S][t]_ _k_ +1 _[I][t]_ _k_ +1 [+]



( _П•_ ) _htk_ +1 _Itk_ +1 +



( _П•_ ) _gtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _П•It_ 2 _k_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ - _._



= sup EпҝҪ _Wtk_ +1 + (( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _П•_ ) _It_ 2 _k_ +1 [+] _[ S][t]_ _k_ +1 _[I][t]_ _k_ +1 [+]
_L_ _[Вұ]_ _tk_ _[вҲҲA][t]_ _k_



( _П•_ ) _htk_ +1 _Itk_ +1 +



( _П•_ ) _gtk_ +1 пҝҪпҝҪпҝҪ _Ftk_ - _._



The above expression has the same structure as (16), but with _Оұtk_ +1 replaced by ( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _П•_ .


This is the reason why the results of Theorem 1 and Corollary 3 follow along the same steps


as in Theorem 1 and Corollary 3 with the term _Оұtk_ +1 (and its variants) replaced by ( _П•_ ) _Оұtk_ +1 _вҲ’_ _П•_ .


The proof of Lemma 2 also follows though it needs a bit more of care. Indeed, this proof is


heavily based on the inequalities (A-12), (A-18), (A-26), which still hold for ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 1 _kВұ_ +1 [and] ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 [,]

but we need them to hold for ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 1 _kВұ_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ [ and] ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ [. Indeed, for (A-12), since] _[ ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_

_ПҖt_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 [, then] _[ вҲ’][П•ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[вүӨвҲ’][П•ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1), which together with] ( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 1 _kВұ_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[Вұ]_ _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ [(] _[П•]_ [)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1) implies]

( [(] _[П•]_ [)] _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[Вұ]_ +1 _[вҲ’][П•]_ [)] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вүӨ]_ [(][(] _[П•]_ [)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[вҲ’][П•]_ [)] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1). The proof of (A-18) is similar. For the second inequality]

in (A-26), since _ПҖt_ [+] _k_ +1 [+] _[ ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_ [1, we have] _[ вҲ’][П•ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨвҲ’]_ _[П•ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 [+] _[ П•]_ [,]

which, together with [(] _[П•]_ [)] _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_ [(] _[П•]_ [)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1+] _k_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+][ (] _[П•]_ [)] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [1] _k_ _[вҲ’]_ +1 _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 [, implies]



( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ [1] _k_ _[,]_ [1] +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ [)] _[ПҖ][t]_ _k_ +1 [(1] _[,]_ [ 1)] _[ вүӨ]_ [(]



( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 1 _kвҲ’_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ [)] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ _[вҲ’]_ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ [(] _[Оұ]_ _t_ [0] _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ [)] _[.]_



(



( _П•_ ) _Оұt_ 1+ _k_ +1 _[вҲ’]_ _[П•]_ [)] _[ПҖ]_ _t_ [+] _k_ +1 [+ (]



The rest of the proof follows the same arguments as in the proof of Lemma 2.

### **References**


Adrian, T., Capponi, A., Fleming, M., Vogt, E. & Zhang, H. (2020). Intraday market


making with overnight inventory costs. _Journal of Financial Markets_ **50**, 100564.


Avellaneda, M. & Stoikov, S. (2008). High-frequency trading in a limit order book. _Quanti-_


_tative Finance_ **8** (3), 217вҖ“224.


68


Barger, W. & Lorig, M. (2019). Optimal liquidation under stochastic price impact. _Interna-_


_tional Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance_, **22** (02):1850059.


BВЁauerle, N. & Rieder, U. (2011). _Markov Decision Processes with Application to Finance_ .


Springer New York.


Becherer, D., Bilarev, T., & Frentrup, P. (2018). Optimal liquidation under stochastic


liquidity. _Finance and Stochastics_, **22**, 39-68.


Bergault, P. & GuВҙeant, O. (2021). Size matters for OTC market makers: general results and


dimensionality reduction techniques. _Mathematical Finance_, **31** (1):279-322.


Bradfield, J. (1979). A formal dynamic model of market making. _Journal of Financial and_


_Quantitative Analysis_ **14**, 275вҖ“291.


Bhattacharya, A. & Saar, G. (2021). Limit order markets under asymmetric information.


_SSRN 3688473_ .


Capponi, A., Figueroa-LВҙopez, J. & Yu, C. (2021). Market Making with Stochastic Liq

uidity Demand: Simultaneous Order Arrival and Price Change Forecasts. _arXiv preprint_


_[arXiv:2101.03086](http://arxiv.org/abs/2101.03086)_ .


Cartea, A., Jaimungal, S. & SВҙanchez-Betancourt, L. [Вҙ] (2021). Latency and Liquidity Risk.


_International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance_, **24** (6).


Cartea, A., Jaimungal, S. & Penalva, J. [Вҙ] (2015). _Algorithmic and High-Frequency Trading_ .


Cambridge University Press.


Cartea, A. & Jaimungal, S. [Вҙ] (2015). Risk metrics and fine tuning of high-frequency trading


strategies. _Mathematical Finance_ **25** (3), 576вҖ“611.


Cartea, A., Jaimungal, S. & Ricci, J. (2014). Buy low, sell high: A high frequency trading


perspective. _SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics_ **5** (1), 415вҖ“444.


Cartea, A., Donnelly, R., & Jaimungal, S. [Вҙ] (2017). Algorithmic trading with model uncer

tainty. _SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics_, **8** (1):635вҖ“671.


69


Cetin, U., & Waelbroeck, H. (2023). Power laws in market microstructure. _Frontiers of_


_Mathematical Finance_, **2** (1), 56-98.


Cvitanic, J. & Kirilenko, A. A. (2010). High frequency traders and asset prices. _Working_


_paper. Preprint available at SSRN 1569067_ .


Fodra, P. & Pham, H. (2015). High frequency trading and asymptotics for small risk aversion


in a Markov renewal model. _SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics_, **6** (1):656-684.


Fodra, P. & Pham, H. (2015). Semi-markov model for market microstructure. _Quantitative_


_Finance_, **22** (3):261-295.


Gao, X. & Wang, X. (2020). Optimal market making in the presence of latency. _Quantitative_


_Finance_, **20** (9).


GuВҙeant, O., Lehalle, C.-A. & Fernandez-Tapia, J. (2013). Dealing with the inventory risk:


a solution to the market making problem. _Mathematics and Financial Economics_ **7** (4), 477вҖ“507.


GuВҙeant, O. (2016). _The Financial Mathematics of Market Liquidity: From optimal execution to_


_market making_, volume 33. CRC Press.


Guilbaud, F. & Pham, H. (2013). Optimal high-frequency trading with limit and market orders.


_Quantitative Finance_ **13** (1): 79-94.


Guilbaud, F. & Pham, H. (2015). Optimal high-frequency trading in a pro rata microstructure


with predictive information. _Mathematical Finance_ **25** (3): 545-575.


HernВҙandez-Lerma, O. & Lasserre, J. (1996). _Discrete-Time Markov Control Processes_ .


Springer New York.


Hendershott, T. & Menkveld, A. J. (2014). Price pressures. _Journal of Financial Economics_


**114** (3), 405вҖ“423.


Ho, T. & Stoll, H. R. (1981). Optimal dealer pricing under transactions and return uncertainty.


_Journal of Financial Economics_ **9** (1), 47вҖ“73.


NystrВЁom, K., Ould Aly, S. M., & Zhang, C. (2014) Market making and portfolio liquidation


under uncertainty. _International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance_, **17** (5).


70


OвҖҷHara, M. & Oldfield, G. (1986). The microeconomics of market making. _Journal of Financial_


_and Quantitative Analysis_ **21** (4), 2603вҖ“2619.


71


