# Trends and Reversion in Financial Markets on Time Scales from Minutes to Decades

#### Sara A. Safari [1, 2] and Christof Schmidhuber [1]

1Zurich University of Applied Sciences, School of Engineering,

#### Technikumstrasse 9, CH-8401 Winterthur, Switzerland


2University of Zurich, Department of Mathematical Modeling and Machine

#### Learning ( DM [3] L ), Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland June 9, 2025


**Abstract**


We empirically analyze the reversion of financial market trends with time horizons


ranging from minutes to decades. The analysis covers equities, interest rates, currencies


and commodities and combines 14 years of futures tick data, 30 years of daily futures


prices, 330 years of monthly asset prices, and yearly financial data since medieval times.


Across asset classes, we find that markets are in a _trending regime_ on time scales


that range from a few hours to a few years, while they are in a _reversion regime_ on


shorter and longer time scales. In the _trending regime_, weak trends tend to persist,


which can be explained by herding behavior of investors. However, in this regime


trends tend to revert before they become strong enough to be statistically significant,


which can be interpreted as a return of asset prices to their intrinsic value. In the


_reversion regime_, we find the opposite pattern: weak trends tend to revert, while those


trends that become statistically significant tend to persist.


Our results provide a set of empirical tests of theoretical models of financial markets.


We interpret them in the light of a recently proposed lattice gas model, where the


lattice represents the social network of traders, the gas molecules represent the shares


of financial assets, and efficient markets correspond to the critical point. If this model


is accurate, the lattice gas must be near this critical point on time scales from 1 hour


to a few days, with a correlation time of a few years.


### **1 Introduction**

Trendfollowing has been one of the most popular trading strategies in financial markets at


least since the success of the turtle traders in the 1980’s [1]. Market trends have also been


studied in the literature since the 1990’s. Early studies such as [2, 3] have shown that trend

following strategies can consistently generate risk-adjusted returns that exceed ordinary risk


premia. Alternative beta strategies have tried to systematically replicate them [4, 5], and


many analyses, such as [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11], have demonstrated that these excess returns arise


across all asset classes, have low correlation with traditional asset returns, and complement


other systematic strategies well. More recently, it has also been shown that market trends


have already existed at least since the 19th century [12, 13, 14].


Traditional trend-followers are “long” a given market when its current trend is positive,


and “short” when the trend is negative. The implicit assumption is that the future expected


return in a given market has the same sign as the current trend in that market. This con

trasts with the intuitive expectation that a trend should revert once it has taken the market


price of an asset too far away from its intrinsic value. This trend reversion has been quanti

tatively observed in [13] and has been modelled in [15].


As reported in [16], we have independently confirmed and refined this observation by a


precise empirical measurement of the future expected return in a market as a function of its


current trend strength. The key to filtering out the noise and getting high precision results


was to aggregate not only across 30 years of daily futures returns and across a diversified


set of 24 equity indices, interest rates, currencies and commodities, but also across 10 trend


horizons ranging from a few days to a year, as will be reviewed in more detail section 2.


The latter aggregation makes sense, as it has long been known that similar trend-following


strategies tend to work over this wide range of time scales.


A key result of this previous study [16], aggregated across assets and trend horizons,


is shown in fig. 1 (left): trends tend to revert before they become statistically strongly


3


Figure 1: _Left_ : The expectation value _E_ ( _r_ ) of the next day’s return of a futures market


can be modeled by a cubic polynomial of the _t_ -statistics _ϕ_ of the trend. The linear term


_bϕ_ models trend-persistence. The cubic term _cϕ_ [3] with _c <_ 0 models trend-reversion. _Right_ :


The coefficients _b_ and _c_ depend on the time horizon _T_, which runs from 2 days to 4 years.


Both figures are aggregated across 24 assets and 10 time horizons as discussed in the text.


significant. In other words, by the time a trend has become so obvious that everybody can


see it in a price chart, it is already over. This is consistent with the hypothesis that any


obvious market inefficiency is quickly eliminated by investors. More precisely, for a given


market and a given time horizon, we have defined the strength _ϕ_ of a trend as its _t_ -statistics.


We have found that tomorrow’s return _R_ ( _t_ + 1) (normalized to have variance 1) is modeled


well by a cubic polynomial of today’s trend strength:


_R_ ( _t_ + 1) = _a_ + _b · ϕ_ ( _t_ ) + _c · ϕ_ ( _t_ ) [3] + _ϵ_ ( _t_ ) _,_ (1)


where _a_ is a risk premium, _ϵ_ represents random noise, and _b_ and _c_ are kinetic coefficients. A


similar model had already been proposed in [15] and extended in [17]. We have interpreted


_b_ as the persistence of trends, and _c_, which is negative, as the strength of trend reversion,


measured them quite precisely, and refined our observations as follows:


  - The parameters _b, c_ are universal in the sense that they seem to be the same for all


assets within the limits of statistical significance. This is in line with the fact that


many successful trend-followers use the same systematic trading strategy for all assets.


4


  - _c_ is negative and does not seem to depend much on the trend’s time horizon _T_ . How

ever, _b_ depends on _T_ : it peaks at _T ∼_ 3-12 months, which is in line with the time scales


on which trendfollowers typically operate. _b_ decays for longer or shorter horizons and


may become negative for _T <_ 1 day or _T >_ several years (fig. 1, right).


  - While _c_ has been fairly stable over time, _b_ appears to have vanished over the decades.


This is in line with the fact that trendfollowing no longer works as well today as it did


in the 1990’s. Markets seem to have become quite efficient with respect to trends.


Studying the interplay of trends and reversion in financial markets is not only of inter

est for traders. It also holds clues for developing an accurate model of the markets that


can replicate these and other empirically observed properties, such as the so-called “stylized


facts” of finance [18, 19]. Such a comprehensive financial market model is in turn needed for


better risk management, including monitoring and managing systemic risk.


Indeed, the above empirical observations have led us to propose a lattice gas model of


financial markets [20]. The lattice represents the social network of investors, while the gas


molecules represent the shares of an asset. The order parameter, i.e., the deviation of the


molecule density from its mean, is identified with the deviation of the asset price from its


intrinsic value. Market efficiency implies a form of self-organized criticality [21]: one expects


arbitrageurs to drive this lattice gas to its critical point, where a second-order phase transi

tion occurs. Near this point, the model can indeed explain the stochastic process (1), where


the cubic driving force is the derivative of the so-called Landau potential known from the


theory of phase transitions. This model can also explain other observed analogies between


financial markets and critical phenomena, including the universality of the coefficients _b, c_ .


The quantitative predictions of such a network model of financial markets depend on the


precise properties of the network, such as its topology or its fractal dimension. Different


network models predict different scaling behaviors of the markets under a rescaling of the


time horizon _T_ . For example, if a simple (and unrealistic) hypercubic network topology


was assumed, then a fractal dimension of _D ≈_ 3 could quantitatively explain the observed


5


value of the second Hurst coefficient of market returns [20]. The model predictions for more


realistic network topologies, such as in [22], are being worked out separately.


In the current paper, we focus on establishing the empirical facts, i.e., the observed scaling


bahaviour that such theoretical models must reproduce: we extend the previous empirical


measurement of the parameters _b, c_, as plotted in fig. 1 (right), in two directions:


  - to intraday scales from 2 minutes to 1 day, using tick data from futures trading


  - to long-term scales from years to decades, using financial data since medieval times,


thereby extending previous historical results [12, 13, 14, 15].


This paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we briefly review the methodology


already applied in [16] to daily data. In section 3, we extend these results to intraday data.


In section 4, we extend them to long-term monthly data. Section 5 combines and summarizes


our observations and interprets them within the framework of the lattice gas model of [20].

### **2 Review: Analysis of Daily Data**


To empirically measure the interplay of trends and reversion in financial markets, we follow


the methodology of [16] based on the data [23], which we briefly review in this section.

#### **2.1 Data Set**


The analysis of daily and intra-day market data is based on historical log-returns of a set


of futures prices. We use futures prices, instead of the underlying market prices, because


futures prices are guaranteed to be marked-to-market every day. Our set of futures is di

versified across asset classes (equity indices, interest rates, currencies, commodities), regions


(Americas, Europe, Asia) and commodity sectors (energy, metals, agriculture).


For daily closing prices, we have used the broadly diversified set of liquid contracts in


table 1 over the period 1990-2020 [23]. For intraday data, we will use end-of-minute prices


6


of a similar set of futures contracts, as described in section 3. For long-term data covering


several centuries, we will use end-of-month prices of a diversified set of assets, as described


in section 4, since the histories of futures prices are insufficient. In addition, for an indicative


analysis of very long-term time horizons, we will use yearly data since medieval times for


some assets in section 4.

|Asset classes vs. regions|America|Europe|Asia|
|---|---|---|---|
|Equities|S&P 500<br>TSE 60|DAX 30<br>FTSE 100|Nikkei 225<br>Hang Seng|
|Interest rates|US 10-year<br>Can. 10-year|Germ. 10-year<br>UK 10-year|Japan 10-year<br>Australia 3-year|
|Currencies|CAD/USD<br>NZD/USD|EUR/USD<br>GBP/USD|JPY/USD<br>AUD/USD|
|Commodities|Crude Oil<br>Natural Gas|Gold<br>Copper|Soybeans<br>Live Cattle|
|Com.-Sectors:|Energy|Metals|Agriculture|



Table 1: List of financial markets used in the analysis of daily data.

#### **2.2 Trend Definition**


For each market _i_ and each time interval, we consider the closing prices _Pi_ ( _t_ ). We define


normalized log-returns _Ri_ ( _t_ ):


_Pi_ ( _t_ )

_Ri_ ( _t_ ) = _[r][i]_ [(] _[t]_ [)] _,_ _ri_ ( _t_ ) = ln _σi_ [2] [= var(] _[r][i]_ [)] _[,]_ _µi_ = mean( _ri_ ) _,_ (2)

_σi_ _Pi_ ( _t −_ 1) _[,]_


where the long-term risk premium _µi_ (used below) and the long-term standard deviation _σi_

of a market _i_ are measured over the whole time period (to avoid biases, in the out-of-sample


cross-validation of our results, the risk premia and variances are estimated only from the


training samples, excluding the validation samples). For each market and each time interval,


we compute different trend strengths on different (partly overlapping) time scales _T_ :


7


  - Minute data: _Tk_ = 2 _[k]_ minutes with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3 _, ...,_ 10 _}_ (2 [6] minutes _≈_ 1 hour)


  - Daily data: _Tk_ = 2 _[k]_ business days with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3 _, ...,_ 10 _}_ (2 [8] trading days _≈_ 1 year)


  - Monthly data: _Tk_ = 1 _._ 5 _·_ 2 _[k]_ months with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _, ...,_ 8 _}_ (1 _._ 5 _·_ 2 [3] months = 1 year)


  - Yearly data: _Tk_ = 2 _[k]_ years with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3 _, ...,_ 7 _}_ (based on 800 years of data)


At a given point in time, a market may well be in an up-trend on one scale, but in a


down-trend on another scale. For a given horizon _T_, we define the trend strength _ϕi,T_ ( _t_ ) of


a given market _i_ at the close of trading of interval _t ∈_ _Z_ as a weighted average of previous


log-returns of that market in excess of the long-term risk premium:



_,_ (3)
_σi_



_ϕi,T_ ( _t_ ) =



_∞_





- ˆ

_wT_ ( _n_ ) _·_ _R_ [ˆ] _i_ ( _t −_ _n_ ) with _Ri_ ( _t −_ _n_ ) = _Ri_ ( _t −_ _n_ ) _−_ _[µ][i]_

_σi_

_n_ =0



where _wT_ ( _n_ ) is a weight function. For monthly data, we use a variant of these trend strengths,


where the variances are computed by an exponentially weighted moving average over the


preceding 30 years. We normalize the weight function _wT_ ( _n_ ) such that the trend strength


_ϕi,T_ has standard deviation 1. Assuming that returns over non-intersecting intervals are


independent of each other (which is true to high accuracy), this implies:


_∞_

      
_wT_ [2] [(] _[n]_ [) = 1] _[.]_ (4)

_n_ =0


With this normalization, _ϕi,T_ is the t-statistics of the trend. All trend strengths are then


comparable with each other, so we can aggregate across all markets and time scales. To


reduce the effect of outliers, we put a ceiling/floor on the trend strength at _±_ 2 _._ 5. We also


put a ceiling/floor on returns that are more than 20 standard deviations from the mean.


A popular weight function corresponds to a moving average cross-over: the trend strength


is proportional to the average price over a short time period _S_ minus the average price over


a long time period _T_, corresponding to the wedge in fig. 2 (left, solid line). For our study, we


use the following weight function for the trend strength _ϕT_, which is similar but smoother:


_w_ ˜ _T_ ( _n_ ) = _MT · n · e_ _[−]_ [2] _[n/T]_ with normalization factor _MT_ _._ (5)


8


The ”average lookback period” of _ϕT_, i.e., the expectation value _E_ [ _n_ + 1] of the number of


intervals we look back (where ”today” is _n_ = 0), is then _T_ . While the precise definition of


the weight function does not matter much, we use this one, because it has only one single


free parameter _T_ (which reduces the risk of overfitting historical data), and because it can


efficiently be computed recursively.


Table 2 shows a small excerpt of the resulting data table. It contains _N ×_ 24 _×_ 10 pairs


of trend stregths on a given day, where _N_ is the number of days, 24 is the number of assets,


and 10 is the number of trend horizons. The response variable is the next-day return.

|Time / Market|Col2|Trend strength at given day|Col4|Col5|Col6|Return|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Day|Asset|k=1|k=2|...|k=10|(next day)|
|1<br>1<br>1|FTSE 100<br>EUR/USD<br>Crude oil|-1.2<br>0.2<br>0.9|-0.8<br>0.4<br>1.4|...<br>...<br>...|0.7<br>0.7<br>0.8|1.7<br>0.1<br>-2.1|
|2<br>2<br>2|FTSE 100<br>EUR/US<br>Crude oil|-0.6<br>0.5<br>1.4|-0.6<br>0.5<br>1.6|...<br>...<br>...|1.1<br>1.1<br>1.1|-0.4<br>0.8<br>1.4|
|3|...|...|...|...|...|...|



Table 2: Small excerpt of the data table used in the daily data analysis, showing two trading


days (out of 30 years of data), and 3 of the 24 assets. For each asset and each day, 10


different trend strengths are computed, measuring the trend over the past _T_ = 2 _[k]_ days with


_k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _, ...,_ 10 _}_ . The last column is the response variable, the asset return on the day after.

#### **2.3 First Look at the Data**


For a first explorative data analysis, we define 15 buckets _bk_ of similar trend strength



_ϕ ∈_ _bk_ with _k ∈{−_ 7 _,_ +7 _},_ _bk_ = [ _[k]_




_[k]_

3 _[−]_ [1] 6




[1]

6 _[, ][k]_ 3




_[k]_

3 [+ ][1]



6 [[] _[ .]_ (6)



I.e., bucket _b_ 0 covers trend strengths from _−_ 1 _/_ 6 to +1 _/_ 6, _b_ 1 from +1 _/_ 6 to +1 _/_ 2, and so on.

We extend the outermost buckets _b±_ 7 to _±∞_ . We then measure the average future return


9


_r_ ( _t_ +1), if _ϕ_ ( _t_ ) lies in a given bucket on day _t_ . For daily data, fig. 1 (left) shows this average


next-day return for a bucket as a function of the average trend strength in that bucket. The


results are aggregated across 30 years of daily returns for each market, and across all 24


markets. Unlike previous studies, [16] also aggregates across different time scales _T_ . This


was key to clearly observing the statistically highly significant patterns in fig. 1. For shorter


time windows, or for any single time scale, these patterns are too blurred to be detected


reliably. This may explain why our findings have not been reported already a decade ago.


This first visualization of the data tells us what kind of pattern to look for: it suggests


to model tomorrow’s market return as a polynomial of today’s trend strength, which should


contain at least the linear and the cubic terms.

#### **2.4 Regression Analysis**


To prove and quantify this suspected pattern, we dissolve our trend strength buckets (6) again


and perform a polynomial regression on the full underlying data set of 24 _·_ 260 _·_ 30 _·_ 10 _≈_ 2


million data pairs (24 markets, 260 trading days per year, 30 years, 10 trend strengths).


The following results are thus independent of the definition of buckets in (6). We regress


the next-day normalized log-return _Ri_ ( _t_ + 1) (2) against a polynomial of the current trend

strength _ϕi,k_ ( _t_ ) across all markets _i_ and time scales _T_ = 2 _[k]_ .


_Ri_ ( _t_ + 1) = _a_ + _b · ϕi,k_ ( _t_ ) + _c · ϕ_ [3] _i,k_ [(] _[t]_ [) +] _[ ϵ][i]_ [(] _[t]_ [ + 1)] _[,]_ (7)


where _ϵ_ represents random noise, and _a_ measures the average normalized risk premium _µi/σi_

across all assets. We ignore _a_ and focus on determining the persistence of trends _b_, and


the strength of trend reversion _c_ . The results of the overall regression analysis are shown in


table 3. As reported in the appendix, the _ϕ_ [2] term is not statistically significant, and adding


higher-order terms in _ϕ_ would also reduce the statistical significance of the model.


The coefficients _a, b, c_ and the R-squared’s are very small, as they _must_ be: if the patterns


were stronger, traders could achieve stellar Sharpe ratios by exploiting them. In fact, it is


shown in [16] that the measured coefficients are just big enough to explain the Sharpe ratios


10


|Parameter|Nonlinear regression results|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|Coefcient|Value|Error|t-statistics|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_|1_._33%<br>1_._29%<br>_−_0_._62%|_±_0_._41%<br>_±_0_._43%<br>_±_0_._23%|3_._3<br>3_._0<br>2_._7|
|R-squared|Single time scales|Aggregated across time scales|Aggregated across time scales|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|1_._31 bp<br>1_._03 bp|4_._91 bp<br>3_._98 bp|4_._91 bp<br>3_._98 bp|


Table 3: Regression results for daily returns: _a_ is the intercept, while _b_ and _c_ are the


regression coefficients of the two explanatory variables, the trend strength and its cube.


of order 1 that trend followers have historically achieved. _b_ and _c_ are statistically highly


significant out-of-sample, although they seem to have decreased over the decades. Within


the limits of statistical significance, we find that _b_ and _c_ are universal, i.e., the same for all


assets. While the strength of reversion _c_ seems to be approximately constant, we find that


the persistence of trends _b_ depends on the time horizon of the trend. Within the range of


time scales considered here, and averaged over the past 30 years, we have found that trends


only persist if the time horizon ranges from a few days to one or two years.

#### **2.5 Statistical Analysis**


Given the small values of the coefficients, and the huge amount of noise in financial market


data, we must assess the statistical significance of the results very carefully. Since market


returns cannot be assumed to be independent, identically distributed normal random vari

ables, we cannot trust standard formulas for the t-statistics, adjusted R-squared’s, and other


statistics. Instead, the test statistics in table 2 have been measured empirically as follows:


  - The error of the coefficients and their t-statistics were computed by bootstrapping,


using 5000 bootstrapping samples. Regression on each new sample of days yielded the


distribution of the 5000 regression coefficients _b_ and _c_ shown in fig. 2 (right), from


which the estimation errors in table 3 were read off. These actual errors are 3-4 times


11


Figure 2: Left: Our trend strength is a weighted sum of past log-returns, similar to a moving


average crossover. Right: regression coefficients _b, c,_ for 5000 bootstrapping samples.


as large as the errors that standard regression tools would report. Nevertheless, even


with these large errors the regression coefficients are still statistically highly significant.


  - The adjusted R-squared was computed by 15-fold cross validation. The resulting out
of-sample R-squared is reported as _Radj_ [2] [in table 3. The actual out-of-sample correction]

_R_ [2] _−_ _Radj_ [2] [is about 3 times as big as what standard regression tools would report.]

Nevertheless, the out-of-sample _Radj_ [2] [is still highly significant despite being very small,]


and agrees with the Sharpe ratio that has been achieved by trend-followers in practice.


  - Table 3 also reports _R_ [2] and _Radj_ [2] [”aggregated across time scales”. Those are based on]


using the equally-weighted mean of the 10 trend strengths on each day to predict the


next-day return for each market. I.e., we combine the 10 different trend factors into a


single one, which has a higher predictive power than each single factor by itself.


The regression results of table 3 and further regression analyses in [16] confirm and quan

tify our conclusions from fig. 1. In particular, we see that the values of _b_ and _c_ - although


very small - are statistically highly significant, despite the fact that market returns are nei

ther normally, nor identically, nor independently distributed.


The reported values of _b, c_ are averaged over the past 30 years. In more recent time


12


periods, our measurements indicate that at least _b_ has decreased. E.g., section 4.4 of [16]


confirms this at the 97.5% confidence level, based on a linear decay ansatz, and estimates


that _b →_ 0 somewhere between 2010 and 2030. This has a natural interpretation: so much


money has flown into trend-following that it does not work as well any more as it used to.

### **3 Analysis of Intraday Data**


We now extend the previous analysis from daily data to intraday data with time scales


ranging from 2 minutes to 1 trading day, using tick data from world-wide futures markets


(i.e., data that record every buy order, every sell order, and every trade, including a precise


timestamp). For previous work on intraday trends see, e.g., [24, 25].

#### **3.1 Data Set**


As in [23], our analysis is based on historical log-returns of futures contracts that are rolled 5


days prior to first notice (i.e., the expiring contract is sold and a new contract is bought). We


again diversify across four different asset classes (equity indices, interest rates, currencies, and


commodities) and three regions (Americas, Europe, and Asia) as shown in table 4. Compared


with the analysis of daily data, we drop some markets that are less liquid or for which we


have less clean data (Nikkei and Hang Seng indices, Japanese and Australian government


bonds, AUD and NZD currencies, copper and live cattle). We also replace the DAX by the


Eurostoxx 50 Index. Our data were provided by TickData (https://www.tickdata.com) and


cover the 14-year period 2010-2023.

|Asset Class|Market 1|Market 2|Market 3|Market 4|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Equities|S&P 500|Eurostoxx 50|FTSE 100|Nikkei 225|
|Interest rates|US 10-year|Can. 10-year|Ger. 10-year|UK 10-year|
|Currencies|CAD/USD|EUR/USD|GBP/USD|JPY/USD|
|Commodities|Crude Oil|Natural Gas|Gold|Soybeans|



Table 4: List of financial markets used in the analysis of intraday (end-of-minute) data.


13


The analysis is based on end-of-minute prices (last traded price in each minute), rather


than the whole set of intra-minute tick data. These end-of-minute prices are sufficient for our


purposes, as we do not analyze intra-minute time scales here. From the prices, we compute


the returns following the definition (2), normalizing them in the same fashion as in [23] to


have standard deviation 1.


The analysis of intraday data must account for the overnight jump in market prices due


to the closure of the exchange and re-opening on the next trading day. As a result, the return


in the opening minute is typically quite large, which can distort our analysis. Moreover, in


the absence of overnight data, no meaningful trend strength can be computed during the


night and in the early trading day. We therefore analyze the intraday trending behavior for


trend horizons of 2 _[k]_ minutes with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _, ...,_ 6 _}_ ( _k_ = 6 corresponding to roughly 1 hour)


on a day-by-day scheme: the time series of returns are broken up into sub-sets, one for each


day, from the opening to the close of each market in its respective time zone. On each day,


the first-minute return is ignored, and the first _T_ minutes of the day serve to build up the


_T_ -minute trend strength. After this ramp-up period, the trend strengths of the different


horizons at the end of each minute as well as the next-minute return are measured.


We then aggregate the resulting tables of trend-strengths and returns (6 trend strengths


and 1 next-minute return for each minute) over all days to increase the statistical significance


of our results. We also aggregate across the different markets, which are traded in different


time zones. Hereby, we implicitly assume that the intraday trending behavior of markets


is independent of the asset class and the time zone, an assumption that we subsequently


test. Based on these data tables, we perform the regression. As a further cross-check, we


subsequently test whether our regression results change significantly if we insert a time lag,


i.e., if we replace the next-minute return by the next-next-minute return.


This day-by-day analysis limits the trend horizons _T_ = 2 _[k]_ minutes to at most a few


hours. For _k ≥_ 7, we instead use continuous time series of minute returns through the whole


14-year period, reinstating the first-minute returns to include the overnight returns. When


14


Figure 3: Average next-minute return as a function of the current trend strength for horizon


_T_ = 2 _[k]_ minutes with _k_ = 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3. Left: the discontinuity at the origin due to the tick size is


modelled by a step function. Right: the remaining pattern is modelled by a polynomial.


connecting minute results with daily results, we interpret 2 [10] minutes as one trading day.


This accounts for the fact that there is no or little overnight trading in many markets.

#### **3.2 First Look at the Data**


As for daily returns, we first visualize the data to decide how to set up the regression. We


first focus on trend strengths in the range [ _−_ 2 _._ 5 _,_ +2 _._ 5] and on the 3 short time horizons 2,


4, and 8 minutes. Fig. 3 (left) shows the scatter plots of the average next-minute return as


a function of the trend strength at the end of the minute before, based on trend strength


buckets as for daily data. The results are aggregated over all years and across all assets.


The average next-minute return is mostly positive for negative trend strength and neg

ative for positive trend strength, so futures prices tend to revert at minute-scales. There


is a discontinuity at trend strength 0. We have found that it does not go away if we make


the trend strength buckets even smaller, and that it decreases with the trend horizon _T_ like



_√_
1 _/_



_T_ . This discontinuity has a natural interpretation: futures prices are not continuous but



discrete with a certain tick size. E.g., S&P 500 futures are priced in units of 25 cent (e.g.,


15


Figure 4: Left: extension of fig. 3 (left) to larger and smaller trend strengths after removing


the discontinuity. A hyperbolic tangent models the tails poorly for horizons _T ≤_ 4. Right:


analogous graph for _T_ = 1 hour to 1 day. The pattern is modelled well by a cubic polynomial.


at $5012.00 or $5012.25, but not in between). When the (compounded) underlying market


price is in the middle between two ticks, the futures price tends to oscillate between them,


leading to a negative auto-correlation of market returns from one minute to the next.



The size of the discontinuity depends on the tick size and the liquidity of the market. In



_√_
the trend strength for horizon _T_, the weight of the previous minute is of order 1 _/_



_T_, which



explains the decrease of the discontinuity with _T_ . This effect can be used to reduce trading


costs, but it can hardly be used for a profitable trading strategy. One could of course try to


earn a so-called ”market maker fee” by placing buy orders at the lower price just after an


up-tick, and placing sell orders at the higher price just after a down-tick. However, there are


trading costs. Moreover, there is the risk that the price does not revert but runs away due


to an underlying trend or a buy/sell order by a large investor. We assume that markets are


efficient in the sense that any trading profit just compensates for this risk.


As seen from fig. 3 (right), after the discontinuity is removed, the remaining pattern


could be modelled by a polynomial or a hyperbolic tangent, which can be taylor-expanded:




[1] [2]

3 _[AB]_ [3] _[ ·][ t]_ [3][ +]



_A ·_ tanh _Bt_ = _AB · t −_ [1]



(8)
15 _[AB]_ [5] _[ ·][ t]_ [5][ +] _[ ...]_



16


For _|t| <_ 2, the linear and cubic terms are sufficient. However, their signs are inverted com

pared with the results from daily data: Even without the discontinuity due to the tick size,


we see that small trends tend to mean-revert (negative linear coefficient), while the reversion


becomes weaker for stronger trends (positive cubic coefficient).


A possible explanation is that small random fluctuations of the prices of the underly

ing are quickly corrected by statistical arbitrage traders (i.e., traders who systematically


sell/buy assets whose price has risen/fallen significantly, thereby driving the asset price back


down/up). However, in cases where there is an underlying cause for the price change, such


as an earnings announcement or an economic/political event, one expects that the trend be

comes strong and persists until a new equilibrium price is reached that prices in this event.


Such situations should weaken the general pattern of mean reversion at minute scales. Again,


it would be difficult to profitably exploit these weak patterns in the face of trading costs,


beyond earning a fair risk premium. In this sense, the patterns are still consistent with


assuming that markets are efficient [26] at intraday scales.


Fig. 4 (left) differs from fig. 3 (right) by a more fine-grained resolution of the tails


(with the discontinuity removed) for time horizons up to 16 minutes. It is clear that a


(negative) hyperbolic tangent of the trend strength _t_ does not model the tails well, and that


we must include at least the first three terms in (8), i.e., we must fit the coefficients of _t, t_ [3] _, t_ [5]


idependently from each other. On the other hand, for time horizons _T ≥_ 1 hour, _t_ and _t_ [3]


seem to suffice to model the tails (fig. 4, right). In the following, we will therefore model the


pattern by a cubic polynomial in _t_ for horizons _T_ = 2 _[k]_ with _k ≥_ 6, while we add a quintic


term for _k <_ 6. We will see that the quintic coefficient becomes insignificant for _k ≥_ 5.

#### **3.3 Regression Analysis**


To quantify these qualitative observations, we thus perform a regression with four factors:


linear, cubic and quintic terms _ϕ, ϕ_ [3], and _ϕ_ [5], and the step function sign( _ϕ_ ):


_R_ ( _t_ + 1) = _a_ + _b · ϕ_ ( _t_ ) + _c · ϕ_ [3] ( _t_ ) + _d · ϕ_ [5] ( _t_ ) + _e ·_ sign _ϕ_ ( _t_ ) + _ϵ_ ( _t_ + 1) _,_ (9)


17


The latter measures the size of the discontinuity and removes it. The nonlinear regression


results, aggregated across all assets and time scales _T_ = 2 _[k]_ with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3 _,_ 4 _}_ are shown


in table 5. As for daily data [23], the estimation errors were computed empirically based on


bootstrapping samples, each of which contained a random selection of whole trading days


(sampling the same days for all assets, with replacement). The adjusted R-squared, reported


here in basis points (0.01%), has been estimated out-of-sample by 12-fold cross-validation.

|Parameter|Regression results for trend horizons up to 16 minutes|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|Coefcient|Value|Error|t-statistics|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_<br>_d_<br>_e_|+0.017%<br>_−_0_._912%<br>+0_._259%<br>_−_0_._038%<br>_−_0_._282%|_±_0_._020%<br>_±_0_._067%<br>_±_0_._056%<br>_±_0_._009%<br>_±_0_._023%|+0.8<br>_−_13_._6<br>+4_._6<br>_−_4_._2<br>_−_12_._5|
|R-squared|Single time scales|Aggregated across time scales|Aggregated across time scales|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|0_._43 bp<br>0_._42 bp|0.56 bp<br>0.55 bp|0.56 bp<br>0.55 bp|



Table 5: Regression results with minute data according to ansatz (9) for short-term trends.

|Parameter|Regression results for trend horizons ≥ 1 hour.|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|Coefcient|Value|Error|t-statistics|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_<br>_e_|+0.003%<br>+0_._132%<br>_−_0_._039%<br>_−_0_._071%|_±_0_._024%<br>_±_0_._046%<br>_±_0_._014%<br>_±_0_._018%|+0.1<br>+2_._9<br>_−_2_._8<br>_−_3_._9|
|R-squared|Single time scales|Aggregated across time scales|Aggregated across time scales|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|0_._012 bp<br>0_._009 bp|0.025 bp<br>0.020 bp|0.025 bp<br>0.020 bp|



Table 6: Regression results with minute data according to ansatz (9) for longer-term trends.


18


We see from table 5 that the discontinuity _e_ at the origin due to the nonzero tick size is


statistically highly significant. The linear coefficient _b_ is also highly significant, but now it


is negative. This quantifies our qualitative observation from the scatter plot and confirms


that, overall, markets tend to mean-revert at intraday scales even after discounting for the


reversion due to the tick size. The cubic coefficient _c_ is also highly significant and positive,


while it was negative in the case of daily data. The quintic coefficient is negative and highly


significant as well. Even terms were not significant enough to be included in the analysis, as


explained in the appendix.


Next, we perform the regression aggregated across the longer time horizons _T_ = 2 _[k]_


minutes with _k ∈{_ 6 _,_ 7 _,_ 8 _,_ 9 _,_ 10 _}_, this time without the quintic term as discussed. The results


are shown in table 6. We observe that the discontinuity has become smaller, as expected.


The linear/cubic coefficients have switched signs and are now in line with the pattern from


daily data: weak trends tend to persist ( _b >_ 0), while strong trends tend to revert ( _c <_ 0).

#### **3.4 Refined Analysis by by Time Horizon**


Fig. 5 shows the regression results for the coefficients _bT_ _, cT_ _, dT_ _,_ and _eT_ seperately for each

time horizon of _T_ = 2 _[k]_ minutes with _k ∈{_ 1 _, ...,_ 10 _}_ . The regression equation is now


_R_ ( _t_ + 1) = _aT_ + _bT · ϕT_ ( _t_ ) + _cT · ϕ_ [3] _T_ [(] _[t]_ [) +] _[ d][T]_ _[·][ ϕ]_ [5] _T_ [(] _[t]_ [) +] _[ e][T]_ _[·]_ [ sign] _[ ϕ][T]_ [(] _[t]_ [) +] _[ ϵ][T]_ [(] _[t]_ [ + 1)] _[,]_ (10)


with the quintic term only present for _k ≤_ 6. For better visualisation for _k >_ 4, we define


the modified coefficients



(˜ _aT_ _,_ [˜] _bT_ _,_ ˜ _cT_ _,_ _d_ [˜] _T_ _,_ ˜ _eT_ ) = ( _aT_ _, bT_ _, cT_ _, dT_ _, eT_ ) _·_




~~�~~

_T_
(11)
60



and plot [˜] _bT_ _,_ ˜ _cT_ instead of _bT_ _, cT_ . These modified coefficients have a simple interpretation. In


first approximation, the price performs a Gaussian random walk. Multiplying both sides of

equation (10) with ~~�~~ _T/_ 60 replaces the coefficients ( _a, b, c, d_ ) by (˜ _a,_ [˜] _b,_ ˜ _c,_ _d_ [˜] ), and the 1-minute


return _R_ by the _T_ -second return _RT_ (with _R_ 60 = _R_ ), whose variance is normalized to 1:



_RT_ ( _t_ + _[T]_




_[T]_ _[T]_

60 [)] _[ ≡]_ [ln] _[ P]_ [(] _[t]_ [ +]




_[T]_ _⇒_ _⟨RT_ [2] _[⟩]_ [=] _[T]_

60 [)] _[ −]_ [ln] _[ P]_ [(] _[t]_ [)]



(12)
60 _[⟨][R]_ [2] _[⟩]_ [= 1] _[.]_



19


Figure 5: Regression coefficients in ansatz (10) for trend horizons _T_ = 2 _[k]_ minutes, rescaled by
_√_

_T_ . Left: discontinuity ˜ _eT_ due to tick size and quintic coefficient _d_ [˜] _T_ for short time horizons

(rescaled by factors). Right: remaining linear and cubic coefficients [˜] _bT_ and ˜ _cT_ . Dashed lines:


same coefficients with a 1-minute time lag between measured trend and predicted return.


So we use the _T_ -minute trend strength to predict the returns over a _T_ -second (instead of

1-minute) time period. [˜] _bT_ and ˜ _cT_ describe how financial markets behave if all time scales

are rescaled by the same factor. If markets were completely scale invariant, [˜] _bT_ and ˜ _cT_ would


be independent of _T_ within their estimation errors.


We observe in fig. 5 that the rescaled tick size discontinuity is indeed negative and almost


independent of _T_, although it becomes statistically less significant for larger _k_ (fig. 5, left).


The quintic term is statistically significant and negative for time scales less than one hour.


Fig. 5 (right) shows that the regime where markets revert more strongly than implied by the


tick size effect (negative _b_, positive _c_ ) ends at time scales of approximately 30 minutes. For


longer time horizons, weak trends tend to persist (positive _b_, negative _c_ ). _b_ becomes larger


than _|e|_ at scales of a few hours, indicating that these trends can even overcome the tick size


reversion. This ”trending” regime extends up to daily scales, where our results connect with


our previous results based on daily data [23], as seen in fig. 10 of section 5.


To verify that our results are not an artifact of any hidden auto-correlation of the returns


20


Figure 6: Regression coefficients overall (white marks) and separately for equities, interest


rates, commodities, currencies, and US/European/Asian trading hours (black). For time


scales _≥_ 1 hour (top), the values may be universal, but not for shorter time scales (bottom).


due to unclean seperation of the trading minutes in our data, the dashed lines in fig. 5 show

˜
_bT_ _,_ ˜ _cT_ with a 1-minute time lag inserted between the minute the trend is measured and the


minute for which the return is predicted. Reassuringly, the results hardly change for _T ≫_ 1


minute. Of course, the 1-minute lag reduces the auto-correlations for shorter _T_ .

#### **3.5 Refined Analysis by Asset Class and Time Zone**


So far, we have aggregated across different asset classes and time zones. We now perform


the regression analysis separately for


(i) Equity indices (all trading hours)


(ii) Interest rates (all trading hours)


21


(iii) Commodities (all trading hours)


(iv) Currencies (all trading hours)


(v) US markets (main trading hours 2-11 pm, all asset classes)


(vi) European markets (main trading hours 8am-2pm, all asset classes)


(vii) Asian markets (main trading hours 0-8 am, all asset classes)


Fig. 6 shows the results for longer time scales _k_ = 6 _, ...,_ 10 (top) and for shorter time


scales _k_ = 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3 _,_ 4 (bottom). The white marks represent the overall values of the regression


parameters, followed by their values for (i)-(vii) in this order (black marks). Some regression


parameters have been rescaled to fit all of them in the same range. We observe that for


horizons of one hour or more (longer time scales), the different values of each parameter


more or less agree within the estimation errors. In this sense, the parameter values may


be universal. On the other hand, for time scales up to 16 minutes, the parameter values


significantly differ from each other, depending on the asset class or time zone. Thus, at very


short time scales, the parameter values are not universal. We return to this in scetion 5.

### **4 Analysis of Centuries of Data**


While the previous section was dedicated to intraday time scales, this section measures the


interplay of trends and reversion on very long time scales from a few years up to decades.


This is based on monthly and yearly market prices. Here, we need not worry about time


zones. Instead, the challenge is to collect and clean century-old financial market data.


Trends in past centuries have previously been analyzed. In [12], it was found that trend

following on time scales from 1 month to 1 year would have been highly profitable across all


asset classes since the 1880. In [13], this result was extended back to 1800. According to [14],


trends may even have existed for at least 800 years. After the analysis in this section was


completed, we noticed that [15] extends the 200-year analysis of [13] to trend horizons of up


to 5 years, including the cubic and also a quadratic term in ansatz (1). The independently


obtained results that we report below are consistent with those of [15]. They extend them


to more than 3 centuries, and to trend horizons of several decades.


22


#### **4.1 Data Set**

We use monthly data from the “Global Financial Database”, covering the diversified set of


markets shown in table 7. The time series we use all end in 2023, but they have different


starting years, shown in brackets. We treat gold as a currency rather than a commodity,


measuring the values of all currencies in units of the gold price.

|Asset Class|1|2|3|4|5|6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Equity<br>indices|US<br>(1871)|UK<br>(1692)|Germany<br>(1835)|France<br>(1802)|Canada<br>(1825)|Japan<br>(1911)|
|Long-term<br>interest rates|US<br>(1786)|UK<br>(1700)|Germany<br>(1788)|France<br>(1746)|Italy<br>(1807)|India<br>(1722)|
|Currencies<br>in gold units|US<br>(1723)|UK<br>(1723)|Germany<br>(1794)|France<br>(1800)|Austria<br>(1813)|Russia<br>(1814)|
|Commodities|Oil<br>(1859)|Silver<br>(1718)|Copper<br>(1800)|Wheat<br>(1808)|Sugar<br>(1784)|Cocoa<br>(1784)|



Table 7: List of financial markets used in the analysis of monthly data covering centuries.


There are many issues with these data that have the potential to distort the results of


our analysis. Let us illustrate them at a few examples; see also the review of the same data


set in [13].


  - Fig. 7 (left) shows the evolution of the British Pound in units of the gold price over


300 years on a logarithmic scale. The pound was pegged to gold over many decades.


During these periods, the returns were zero and there were no trends, so no meaningful


trend analysis is possible, except for very long-term trends.


  - Fig. 7 (right) shows the extreme downtrend of the Deutsche Mark in the 1920’s due


to German hyperinflation after World War 1. In fact, most currencies had periods of


hyperinflation at some point in their history. Those start as normal down-trends but


then culminate in ”singularities”, in the sense that the currencies devalue by orders


23


Figure 7: Samples of our historical asset prices on a logarithmic scale to illustrate obstacles


to quantitative analyses of historical data. Left: British stock market index and British


pound in gold units since 1700. Right: Oil price and Deutsche Mark vs. gold since 1850.


of magnitudes within several months. These extreme events distort our analyses. We


therefore discuss shorter-term currency trends (up to 1 year) seperately below.


  - Fig. 7 (left) also shows the inflation-adjusted evolution of the British stock market


index since the late 17th century on a log scale. We observe a steady long-term equity


risk premium of around 5% over the centuries. Similar risk premia can be observed


for all other equity indices. These risk premia can be regarded as trends with infinite


time horizon. We remove them before analyzing the remaining shorter-term trends.


  - Apart from several equity market crashes, fig. 7 (left) shows a brief spike of the index


around 1720, where its value briefly grew almost 10-fold, then crashed. This is not a


data error. At that time the index consisted of only 3 companies, one of which - the


South Sea Company - caused a huge speculative bubble that burst soonafter. Such


extreme outliers can also distort our analysis of shorter-term trends.


  - Fig. 7 (right) also shows the evolution of the oil price since the industrial revolution


on a log scale. Periods of huge price fluctuations and shocks are followed by periods of


very rigid prices, e.g., in times when the oil price is politically controlled. This extreme


range of volatility makes an overall analysis of oil price trends difficult.


24


  - In fact, the volatilities of most of our assets have varied widely over the centuries. When


normalizing returns to have standard deviation 1, we partly mitigate this problem by


using an exponentially-weighted moving average volatility with a half-life of 30 years.


  - There are also periods in history, during which prices were recorded imprecisely, e.g.,


as constant when they were only approximately constant. This makes the volatility


seem zero, and thus leads to an infinite trend strength. We exclude such assets.


  - For many other assets, the price was historically recorded only once a year or even only


once in a decade (e.g., for rice in the 12th century in China, or for silk and safran in


per-industrial times). We do not include such assets in our analysis either.


In view of these data issues with century-old data, in this section we will regard regression


coefficients as statistically significant only if their t-statistics is _≥_ 3. We use trend horizons


of 1 _._ 5 _·_ 2 _[k]_ months, with _k ∈{_ 1 _,_ 2 _, ...,_ 9 _}_, corresponding to 3 months to 64 years. We use two


data sets: one set of the monthly returns of the assets in table 8 since 1871, covering 150


years. These data are more reliable than older historical data, and include all of the markets


in table 8 during the whole time period, except for the Nikkei index and for the shorter-term


trends of currencies. We use them to analyze trends up to _k_ = 7 (16 years). For _k_ = 7 _,_ 8


(32, 64 years), we include each market in table 8 since the start of its track record. The


longest track record, that of the British stock market index, begins in 1692. These data are


less reliable but contain just enough history to study trends that last a few decades.

#### **4.2 First Look at the Data**


To explore what kind of pattern we can expect, we again start with a visualization of the


data by grouping them into buckets of similar trend strengths, as for daily and minute data.


Here we use 5 buckets per unit of trend strength. Fig. 8 (left) shows scatter plots of the


average next-month return (on a log scale) as a function of a given month’s trend strength


for shorter-term trends. We average over all years, all markets excluding currencies, and


time horizons from 3 months to 1 year.


25


Figure 8: Average next-month return as a function of the current trend strength, based on


150 years of data. Left: trend horizons up to 2 years. Right: horizons of more than 2 years.


We clearly see the cubic polynomial that we have already observed for daily data since


1990 over these trend horizons. The positive linear and negative cubic coefficients imply


that weak trends tend to persist, while too strong trends tend to revert. The new piece of


information we gain is that this cubic pattern is not a recent phenomenon, but has existed


for at least 150 years, in line with previous results [12, 13, 15].


The white squares in fig. 8 (left) show the results if we include currencies, valued in


units of the gold price. The whole curve is shifted downwards, because - over the decades


- all currencies have lost value relatively to gold due to inflation. The lower left data point


(encircled) reflects the final months of periods of hyperinflation, as discussed above.


Fig. 8 (right) shows the same plot (including currencies) for long time horizons (4-16


years). The slope _b_ at the origin is clearly negative. The cubic coefficient _c_ seems to be


positive. We will confirm this by the regression analysis of the next sub-section. Thus, the


scatter plot suggests that, for time horizons of many years, weak trends tend to revert. A


possible interpretation is that this reflects economic cycles. On the other hand, strong long

term trends tend to persist. This may reflect the long-term rise and decline of individual


economies, or of the supply and demand for key commodities such as oil or copper.


26


#### **4.3 Regression Analysis**

We now carry out two cubic regression analyses with ansatz (1) for monthly returns, one for


shorter trend horizons of _T ∈{_ 3 _,_ 6 _,_ 12 _}_ months with all assets excluding currencies (to avoid


the hyperinflation outliers), and one for longer horizons _T ∈{_ 2 _,_ 4 _,_ 8 _,_ 16 _}_ years including


currencies. We begin with the period 1871-1923.

|Parameter|Trend horizons up to 1 year|Col3|Col4|Trend horizons 2 −16 years|Col6|Col7|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Coefcient|Value|Error|t-stat|Value|Error|t-stat|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_|+6.1%<br>+7_._0%<br>_−_1_._4%|_±_0_._9%<br>_±_1_._4%<br>_±_0_._4%|7.3<br>5_._0<br>3_._3|+2_._2%<br>_−_4_._2%<br>+1_._1%|_±_0_._7%<br>_±_0_._9%<br>_±_0_._2%|3.0<br>4.8<br>5.2|
|R-squared|Single|Aggregated|Aggregated|Single|Aggregated|Aggregated|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|11_._0 bp<br>5_._7 bp|15.4 bp<br>8.4 bp|15.4 bp<br>8.4 bp|5_._0 bp<br>2_._2 bp|8.5 bp<br>4.4 bp|8.5 bp<br>4.4 bp|



Table 8: Regression results for ansatz (1), using long-term monthly (instead of daily) data.


Left: shorter horizons excluding currencies. Right: longer horizons including currencies.


The results are shown in table 8. They confirm and quantify our qualitative observations


that the linear coefficient _b_ is positive for shorter horizons and negative for longer horizons,


while the cubic coefficient _c_ is negative for shorter horizons and positive for longer horizons.


These results are statistically significant; the errors are computed by bootstrapping with


500 samples. The adjusted R-squared is computed by 12-fold cross validation. As reported


in the appendix, a quadratic term would clearly be insignificant for shorter time horizons.


For longer horizons, its _t_ -statistics is _t_ = 2 _._ 4, which is below our significance threshold of


3. In view of this, we do not add a quadratic term, although we cannot rule out its existence.


The persistence of trends _b_ and the strength of reversion _c_ are shown seperately for each


time horizon in fig. 9 (left). For horizons up to about two years, small trends indeed tend to


persist ( _b_ is significantly positive), while trends tend to revert when they become too strong


( _c_ is negative). This re-confirms that this interplay of trends and reversion has characterized


27


Figure 9: Regression of monthly returns against trend strengths by time horizon, using ansatz


(1). Left: all assets since 1871, excluding currencies for _T ≤_ 1 year. Right: extension of the


analysis to 6 decades, based on each asset since the first year of its track record ( _≥_ 1692).


financial markets at least since the industrial revolution. In fact, it may well go back to


pre-industrial times, as shown in fig. 9 (right), which is based on the longer (but less clean)


set of monthly data since 1692.


At horizons of 1-2 years, the persistence of small trends disappears ( _b →_ 0), so the


”trending regime” ends at these time scales. For 2- and 4-year horizons, this has already


been seen in our analysis of daily data since 1990. Our new observation for trend horizons


of up to a few decades is that weak trends tend to revert (negative _b_ ), while strong trends


tend to persist (positive _c_ ). As seen from fig. 9 (right), which extends to time horizons of


up to 32 years, this pattern has apparently characterized financial markets for centuries. As


noted above, it may reflect economic cycles, combined with long-term economic trends that


last a decade or longer.


Our results are in close agreement with the 200-year-results [15], where it was also found


that the parameters we call _bT_ and _cT_ both switch signs at time horizon _T ≈_ 2 years (although


we disregard the negative quadratic term). Our results suggest that this reversion behavior


extends from time scales of 5 years as in [15] to at least a few decades, and that it has existed


for at least 300 years.


28


#### **4.4 Refinements and Extension to Medieval Times**

To check if our reversion pattern for long trend horizons depends on the asset class, we


have performed separate nonlinear regression analyses for equity indices, interest rates, com

modities, and currencies. As we have already found in the case of daily data, for time


horizons up to 1 year all asset classes show the same pattern: weak trends tend to persist,


strong trends tend to revert. Unfortunately, for longer-term horizons, the amount of noise in


our monthly long-term data does not allow us to establish whether the pattern found above


(reversion of weak trends, persistence of strong trends) occurs separately for each asset class.


However, on fundamental grounds, it is clear that there are differences between the asset


classes. Equities differ by their long-term risk premia of around 5% per annum. Interest


rates have generally declined over the centuries and decades. Currencies have extreme down

trends in times of hyper-inflation, and commodity prices display periods of extreme volatility.


Thus, the universality of the interplay of trends and reversion that we have observed from


daily data since 1990 is unlikely to extend to time horizons of a few years and longer.


We have also tried to extend our observations on the interplay of trends and reversion


all the way back to medieval times, trying to extend linear results in [14], but our data set


is too limited to yield statistically significant _nonlinear_ regression results.

|Parameter|Regression results (a = intercept, b = beta to trend strength)|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|Coefcient|Value|Error|t-statistics|
|_a_<br>_b_|+1.0%<br>_−_11%|_±_2_._0%<br>_±_5_._6%|0.6<br>2_._0|



Table 9: Linear regression results for yearly interest rates since the 14th century.


We could only do a simple linear analysis for interest rates, for which we have annual


quotes for Germany (since 1327), France (since 1388), England (since 1311), and the Nether

lands (since 1401). There are also historical prices for gold and silver since 1258, but since


29


gold and silver essentially _were_ the currencies at the time, these prices are not useful for a


regression analysis: they tend to be stable over decades, interrupted by occasional jumps in


times of inflation. Price quotes for more exotic assets such as silk or safran are too infrequent


and too discontinuous to be included in the analysis. The linear regression for interest rates


since the 14th century, with trend horizons from 2 to 128 years, is shown in table 9. Not


surprisingly, it indicates that trends in interest rates that last several decades tend to revert.

### **5 Synthesis and Discussion**


Let us now glue the observed values of _b_ and _c_ from intra-day data since 2010, daily data


since 1990, and long-term monthly data since 1692 together. Since these data cover different


time periods, gluing the results together only makes sense and will only work if _b_ and _c_ are


relatively stable across different time periods.


To make _bT_ and _cT_ for different time scales _T_ comparable, the time horizon _N_ of the


future return _RN_ should scale with the time horizon _T_ of the trend used to predict it. We

therefore rescale the coefficients _bT_ _, cT_ to [˜] _bT_ _,_ ˜ _cT_ as in (11):



˜ _bT_ = _bT ·_



_T/_ 60 _,_ _c_ ˜ _T_ = _cT ·_ ~~�~~ _T/_ 60 _._ (13)



This is equivalent to normalizing both the trend strength _ϕT_ and the predicted returns _RT/_ 60

to always have variance 1, so they can be compared across all time scales from minutes to


centuries. That is, we use the _T_ -minute trend to predict the subsequent _T_ -second return, the


_T_ -day trend to predict the subsequent _T/_ 60-day return, and the _T_ -month trend to predict


the subsequent _T/_ 5-year return. This yields the consolidated scaling behavior of financial


market trends shown in fig. 10. In summary, we have observed the following:


  - _Intraday time horizons:_ up-ticks in futures prices (trade prices) tend to be followed by


down-ticks, and vice versa. This effect is stronger for shorter time horizons and can be


explained as an artifact of the tick size. It may be used to reduce trading costs, but


not as a profitable trading strategy (markets seem to be efficient at minute scales).


30


Figure 10: Regression coefficients from minutes to decades based on ansatz (1), combining (i)


intraday data since 2010, (ii) daily data since 1990, and (iii) monthly data since 1692. Left:


time horizons of _T ≤_ 8 days. Right: time horizons _T ≥_ 8 days. Although the three data


sets cover different time periods, the results connect with each other within error margins.


  - _Time horizons up to 15 minutes:_ even after subtracting this ”tick size reversion”, weak

trends in financial markets generally tend to revert at these scales (negative [˜] _b_ ). This is


not the case for stronger trends, which tend to persist on average (positive ˜ _c_ ), possibly


due to fundamental causes of some trends. In the regression analysis, quintic and


possibly higher-order polynomials in the trend strength are statistically significant at


these short time scales. Their coefficients are not universal - they depend on the asset.


  - _Time horizons from 30 minutes to a few hours:_ after subtracting the tick size reversion

effect, the sign of [˜] _b_ switches sign and the pattern can be modeled well by a regression

with universal linear and cubic terms ( [˜] _b >_ 0 _,_ ˜ _c <_ 0), just as for daily data. At horizons

of more than a few hours, [˜] _b_ is strong enough to overcome the tick size reversion effect.


  - _Time horizons from a few hours to several days:_ small trends tend to persist ( [˜] _b >_ 0),

while strong trends tend to revert (˜ _c <_ 0). In this range, [˜] _b_ and ˜ _c_ are small. The jump


from minute- to daily data is still within estimation errors. The data are consistent with

assuming that _c_ is constant and financial markets are approximately scale invariant. [˜] _b_


and ˜ _c_ seem to be universal, i.e., independent of the asset or time zone (within errors).


This has been explained in [20] by modeling trends as purely social phenomena that


31


arise in the social network of investors, which is assumed to be near a critical point.


  - _Time horizons from a few days to one year_ : Trends in all markets still tend to persist

as long as they are weak, and to revert when they become too strong. However, _|_ [˜] _b|, |c_ ˜ _|_


grow with the time horizon and peak at 6-12 months. This pattern has long been


exploited by trend-followers. It again seems to be universal (independent of the asset).


  - _Time horizons from a few years to decades:_ [˜] _b_ and ˜ _c_ become weaker and switch signs


at horizons of _≈_ 2 years, beyond which weak trends tend to revert and strong trends


seem to persist. This could reflect economic cycles and long-term developments.


These results provide a detailed set of empirical observations that measure the scaling be

havior of financial markets. Theoretical model of financial markets, such as [17, 27, 28, 29,


30, 31, 32], must replicate them, as well as other stylized facts [18, 19].


Let us conclude by tentatively interpreting our results in the light of one such model,


the lattice gas model [20]. The lattice represents the social network of investors, while the


gas molecules represent the shares of an asset that are distributed across this network. The


order parameter _ϕ_ corresponds to the deviation of the price of the asset from its long-term


value. Trend-followers and statistical arbitrageurs are expected to drive the lattice gas to its


critical point, near which it is described by scalar field theory with Landau potential



˜

[1] _bϕ_ [2] _−_ [1]

2 4



˜
_dϕ_ [6] + _...,_ where [˜] _b,_ _d_ [˜] _≪_ 1 _,_ ˜ _c_ = _−g_ _[∗]_ _._ (14)
6



_V_ = [1]




[1] [1]

4 _[cϕ]_ [˜] [4][ +] 6



Here, it is assumed that ”price-minus-value” _ϕ_ can be measured as today’s price minus a


long-term average price, which is essentially the (rescaled) trend strength _ϕk_ in (2) in the

limit of large _T_ = 2 _[k]_, close to the correlation time. _g_ _[∗]_ _>_ 0 is the value of the _ϕ_ [4] coupling


constant at its renormalization group fixed point, to which it tends (or, in renormalization


group language, ”flows”) at large scales. The derivative _V_ _[′]_ ( _ϕ_ ) plays the role of the cubic


driving force in (1).


˜
_d_ is an _irrelevant_ coupling constant in the renormalization group sense. This means that


it shrinks towards zero at large scales _T > T_ 1 for some _T_ 1, but grows at small scales _T < T_ 1,


32


below which non-universal microscopic details of the molecules (corresponding to market


details such as tick sizes and liquidity) become visible. This matches our observations, if we


identify _T_ 1 _≈_ 15 _−_ 30 minutes.


By contrast, [˜] _b_ is a _relevant_ coupling constant in the renormalization group sense. This


means that it shrinks to zero at _small_ scales _T < T_ 2 for some _T_ 2, but grows at _large_ scales


_T > T_ 2. In the range _T_ 1 _< T < T_ 2, the model is near the critical point. There, it should


be approximately scale invariant and characterized by universal critical exponents, such as


Hurst exponents. Consistency with our observations requires a _T_ 2 of roughly a few days.


˜
_b <_ 0 implies that the lattice gas is slightly below the critical temperature. If the model

is correct, [˜] _b_ should grow as a power _T_ _[β]_ of the time horizon _T_, until _T_ reaches the correlation


time _τ_, beyond which auto-correlations decay rapidly. This is consistent with fig. 10 for _τ ≈_


a few years. We can also estimate the critical exponent _β ≈_ 0 _._ 4 _−_ 0 _._ 6 from fig. 10. This


value, as well as the Hurst exponents, must be replicated by the correct variant of the lattice


gas model. Further work on this potential interpretation of our results is underway.

### **Acknowledgements**


We would like to thank Henriette (formely Wolfgang) Breymann, Ashkan Nikeghbali, Thomas


Leh´erici, and Maximilan S. Janisch for discussions, Gisela Reichmuth for remarks on tick


data, and Donat Maier for helping us to clean the intra-day and long-term data. This research


is supported by grant no. PT00P2 ~~2~~ 06333 from the Swiss National Science Foundation.

### **Appendix: Even Regression Terms**


For completeness, here we generalize the regression ansatz (1,9) to also include the quadratic


and higher-order polynomial terms:


_R_ ( _t_ + 1) = _a_ + _b · ϕ_ ( _t_ ) + _c_ 2 _· ϕ_ [2] ( _t_ ) + _c · ϕ_ [3] ( _t_ ) + _c_ 4 _· ϕ_ [4] ( _t_ ) + _d · ϕ_ [5] ( _t_ ) + _ϵ_ ( _t_ + 1) _._ (15)


33


The regression results for daily data are shown in table 10. The first 2 colums are the results


of table 3 with only linear and cubic terms. In the next 2 columns, we add the quadratic


term. Its coefficient _c_ 2 is not significant (t-statistics _<_ 1). It increases the in-sample _R_ [2]

(both for single and aggregated time scales), but it decreases the out-of-sample _R_ [2] . This is


a classical sign of data overfitting.


The last 2 columns include all coefficients. The adjusted _R_ [2] is similar as for the linear

plus-cubic regression. However, the _t_ -statistics for the coefficients _b_ _−_ _d_ are generally smaller,


which can be attributed to overfitting outlier events with _|t| ≥_ 2 _._ 5. We conclude that


the linear-plus-cubic model ist the most reliable one, although we cannot exclude that the


response function may rise/fall more steeply than _ϕ_ [3] in the far tails.

|Col1|Linear & cubic terms|Col3|With quadratic term|Col5|5th order polynomial|Col7|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Coef.|Value in %|t-stat|Value in %|t-stat|Value in %|t-stat|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_2<br>_c_<br>_c_4<br>_d_|+1_._33_ ±_ 0_._41<br>+1_._29_ ±_ 0_._43<br>_−_0_._62_ ±_ 0_._23|3_._3<br>3_._0<br>2_._7|+1_._45_ ±_ 0_._36<br>+1_._30_ ±_ 0_._43<br>_−_0_._15_ ±_ 0_._36<br>_−_0_._63_ ±_ 0_._23|4_._0<br>3_._0<br>0_._4<br>2_._7|+1_._59_ ±_ 0_._30<br>+0_._33_ ±_ 0_._44<br>_−_0_._50_ ±_ 0_._33<br>+0_._36_ ±_ 0_._36<br>+0_._07_ ±_ 0_._12<br>_−_0_._15_ ±_ 0_._07|5_._3<br>0_._7<br>1_._5<br>1_._0<br>0_._6<br>2_._1|
|_R_2 in bp|Single_ T_|Aggr.|Single_ T_|Aggr.|Single_ T_|Aggr.|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|1_._31<br>1_._03|4_._91<br>3_._98|1.34<br>0.84|5.12<br>3.50|1.58<br>0.96|6.31<br>4.04|



Table 10: Extension of table 3 for daily returns to the general regression ansatz (15).


Table 11 adds the quadratic term to the regression for the 150-year set of monthly data


without currencies. For trends horizons up to one year, the quadratic coefficient _c_ 2 is clearly


insignificant, as for daily data. For longer trends, it is negative with t-statistic 2.4, which is


below our chosen significance threshold of _t_ = 3 for these long-term data. So we prefer not


to add the quadratic regression term, although we cannot clearly rule it out either.


34


|Col1|Trend horizons up to 1 year|Col3|Col4|Col5|Trend horizons 2 −16 years|Col7|Col8|Col9|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Coef.|Value (%)|t-stat|Value (%)|t-stat|Value (%)|t-stat|Value (%)|t-stat|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_2<br>_c_|+6_._1_±_0_._9<br>+7_._0_±_1_._4<br>_−_1_._4_±_0_._4|7.3<br>5_._0<br>3_._3|+6_._7_±_0_._9<br>+7_._0_±_1_._4<br>_−_0_._2_±_0_._7<br>_−_1_._4_±_0_._4|7.7<br>5_._0<br>0.3<br>3_._3|+2_._2_±_0_._7<br>_−_4_._2_±_0_._9<br>+1_._1_±_0_._2|3.0<br>4.8<br>5.2|+3_._3_±_0_._7<br>_−_3_._9_±_0_._9<br>_−_1_._1_±_0_._5<br>+0_._9_±_0_._3|4.6<br>4.3<br>2.4<br>3.5|
|_R_2 in bp|Single_ T_|Aggr.|Single_ T_|Aggr.|Single|Aggr.|Single_ T_|Aggr.|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|11_._0<br>5_._7|15.4<br>8.4|11_._1<br>3_._5|15.6<br>5.4|5_._0<br>2_._2|8.5<br>4.4|7.5<br>3.3|12.0<br>6.1|


Table 11: Extension of table 8 for monthly returns to the general regression ansatz (15).


Table 12 shows an analogous analysis for intraday returns, in which case we also add a


term _e ·_ sign( _ϕ_ ) to ansatz (15). The quadratic/quartic terms are not or only barely statisti

cally significant, and they do not increase the adjusted R-squared, so we prefer to keep our


regression model simple and drop these even terms as explanatory variables.

|Col1|Trend horizons up to 16 minutes|Col3|Col4|Col5|Trend horizons 1 hour to 1 day|Col7|Col8|Col9|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Coef.|Value (%)|t-stat|Value (%)|t-stat|Value (%)|t-stat|Value (%)|t-stat|
|_a_<br>_b_<br>_c_2<br>_c_<br>_c_4<br>_d_<br>_e_|+0_._017<br>_−_0_._912<br>+0_._259<br>_−_0_._038<br>_−_0_._282|0_._8<br>13_._6<br>4_._6<br>4_._2<br>12_._5|0.055<br>-0.890<br>-0.076<br>0.272<br>0.006<br>-0.042<br>-0.287|2.8<br>13.3<br>2.1<br>4.9<br>0.7<br>4.6<br>12.5|+0_._003<br>+0_._132<br>_−_0_._039<br>_−_0_._071|0.1<br>2.9<br>2.8<br>3.9|_−_0_._008<br>+0_._159<br>_−_0_._002<br>_−_0_._038<br>_−_0_._001<br>_−_0_._067|0.3<br>3.5<br>0.1<br>2.7<br>0.2<br>3.7|
|_R_2 in bp|Single|Aggr.|Single|Aggr.|Single|Aggr.|Single|Aggr.|
|_R_2<br>_R_2<br>_adj_|0_._43<br>0_._42|0.56<br>0.55|0.43<br>0.42|0.56<br>0.55|0.012<br>0.009|0.025<br>0.020|0.013<br>0.007|0.027<br>0.016|



Table 12: Extension of tables 5,6 for intraday returns to the general regression ansatz (15).


35


### **References**


[1] For a popular review, see, e.g., Covel, M., 2007. The Complete TurtleTrader: The Legend,


the Lessons, the Results. Collins.


[2] Cutler, D.M., Poterba, J.M. and Summers, L.H., 1991. Speculative dynamics. The Review


of Economic Studies, 58(3), pp.529-546.


[3] Silber, W.L., 1994. Technical trading: when it works and when it doesn’t. The Journal


of Derivatives, 1(3), pp.39-44.


[4] Fung, W. and Hsieh, D.A., 1997. The risk in hedge fund strategies: Theory and evidence


from trend followers. The review of financial studies 14, no. 2 (2001): 313-341.


[5] Jaeger, L. and Wagner, C., 2005. Factor modeling and benchmarking of hedge funds:


can passive investments in hedge fund strategies deliver? The Journal of Alternative


Investments, 8(3), pp.9-36.


[6] Erb, Claude B., and Campbell R. Harvey. ”The tactical and strategic value of commodity


futures.” (2005).


[7] Miffre, J. and Rallis, G., 2007. Momentum strategies in commodity futures markets.


Journal of Banking & Finance, 31(6), pp.1863-1886.


[8] Shen, Qian, Andrew C. Szakmary, and Subhash C. Sharma. ”An examination of mo

mentum strategies in commodity futures markets.” Journal of Futures Markets: Futures,


Options, and Other Derivative Products 27.3 (2007): 227-256.


[9] Moskowitz, T.J., Ooi, Y.H. and Pedersen, L.H., 2012. Time series momentum. Journal


of financial economics, 104(2), pp.228-250.


[10] Menkhoff, Lukas, et al. ”Currency momentum strategies.” Journal of Financial Eco

nomics 106.3 (2012): 660-684.


[11] Baz, J., Granger, N., Harvey, C.R., Le Roux, N. and Rattray, S., 2015. Dissecting


investment strategies in the cross section and time series. Available at SSRN 2695101.


36


[12] Hurst, B., Ooi, Y.H. and Pedersen, L.H., 2017. A century of evidence on trend-following


investing. The Journal of Portfolio Management, 44(1), pp.15-29;


[13] Lemp´eri`ere, Y., Deremble, C., Seager, P., Potters, M., and Bouchaud, J. -P. 2014. “Two


Centuries of Trend Following.” Journal of Investment Strategies 3 (3): 41–61.


[14] Greyserman, Alex, and Kathryn Kaminski. Trend following with managed futures: The


search for crisis alpha. John Wiley & Sons, 2014.


[15] Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, et al. ”Black was right: Price is within a factor 2 of Value.”


Available at SSRN 3070850 (2017).


[16] Schmidhuber, Christof. ”Trends, reversion, and critical phenomena in financial mar

kets.” Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications 566 (2021): 125642.


[17] Majewski, Adam A., Stefano Ciliberti, and Jean-Philippe Bouchaud. ”Co-existence of


trend and value in financial markets: Estimating an extended Chiarella model.” Journal


of Economic Dynamics and Control 112 (2020): 103791.


[18] Mantegna, Rosario N., and H. Eugene Stanley. Introduction to econophysics: correla

tions and complexity in finance. Cambridge university press, 1999.


[19] Cont, Rama. ”Empirical properties of asset returns: stylized facts and statistical issues.”


Quantitative finance 1.2 (2001): 223.


[20] Schmidhuber, Christof. ”Financial markets and the phase transition between water and


steam.” Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications 592 (2022): 126873


[21] Bak, P., Tang, C. and Wiesenfeld, K., 1988. Self-organized criticality. Physical review


A, 38(1), p.364.


[22] Schmidhuber, Christof. ”Critical Dynamics of Random Surfaces.” arXiv preprint


arXiv:2409.05547 (2024).


[23] Schmidhuber, Christof (2020), “Data for: Trends, Reversion, and Critical Phenomena


in Financial Markets”, Mendeley Data, V1, doi: 10.17632/v73nzdt7rt.1


37


[24] M¨uller, Ulrich A., et al. ”Statistical study of foreign exchange rates, empirical evidence


of a price change scaling law, and intraday analysis.” J. of Banking & Finance 14.6 (1990).


[25] Gen¸cay, R., Dacorogna, M., Muller, U. A., Pictet, O., & Olsen, R. (2001). An introduc

tion to high-frequency finance. Elsevier.


[26] Fama, Eugene (1970). ”Efficient Capital Markets: A Review of Theory and Empirical


Work”. Journal of Finance. 25 (2): 383. doi:10.2307/2325486. JSTOR 2325486.


[27] T. Lux, M. Marchesi, Scaling and criticality in a stochastic multi-agent model of a


financial market, Nature 297 (1999) 498–500.


[28] Farmer, J.D. and Joshi, S., 2002. The price dynamics of common trading strategies.


Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 49(2), pp.149-171.


[29] Bouchaud, J.P. and Cont, R., 1998. A Langevin approach to stock market fluctuations


and crashes. European Physical J. B-Condensed Matter and Complex Systems, 6(4).


[30] Sornette, D., 2014. Physics and financial economics (1776–2014): puzzles, Ising and


agent-based models. Reports on progress in physics, 77(6), p.062001.


[31] Takayasu, M., Mizuno, T. and Takayasu, H., 2006. Potential force observed in market


dynamics. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 370(1), pp.91-97.


[32] Watanabe, K., Takayasu, H. and Takayasu, M., 2009. Random walker in temporally


deforming higher-order potential forces observed in a financial crisis. Physical Review E,


80(5), p.056110.


38


