## **The Market Maker’s Dilemma:** **Navigating the Fill Probability vs. Post-Fill Returns** **Trade-Off**

Jakob Albers [1] Mihai Cucuringu [1,2,3] Sam Howison [4] Alexander Y. Shestopaloff [5,6]


1Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK
2Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance, University of Oxford, UK
3Department of Mathematics, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, US
4Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK
5School of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK
6Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John’s, NL, Canada


Corresponding author: `jakob.albers@merton.ox.ac.uk`


November 25, 2025


**Abstract**


Using data from a live trading experiment on the Binance Bitcoin perpetual, we examine
the effects of (i) basic order book mechanics and (ii) the persistence of price changes from
immediate to short timescales, revealing the interplay between returns, queue sizes, and orders’
queue positions. We document a fundamental trade-off: a negative correlation between maker
fill likelihood and post-fill returns. This dictates that viable maker strategies often require
a contrarian approach, counter-trading the prevailing order book imbalance. These dynamics render commonly-cited strategies highly unprofitable, leading us to model ‘Reversals’:
situations where a contrarian maker strategy at the touch proves effective.


**Keywords:** market making, limit order book, fill probability, optimal execution, adverse selection,
high-frequency trading


**JEL classification:** G13, G14, C81, C90


**1 Introduction**


Traders in a limit order book (LOB) market have three immediate objectives in mind for their
orders: to have a high probability that an order fills; to achieve a good fill price (without ‘walking
the book’); and to achieve a good post-fill return. These objectives are generally conflicting,
rendering “optimal” trading a difficult task. We explore aspects of this task in the context of
high-frequency trading (HFT).


It is conceptually helpful here to have in mind two perspectives. One is that of Optimal
Execution (OE), in which a trader makes a net one-way trade or set of trades to buy or sell a
position, which may be relatively large and may be traded on behalf of a client. The other is that
of ‘Balanced Inventory’ (BI) trading, aiming at small profits from a large number of trades, in
which the trader must keep their inventory broadly in balance, eventually unwinding all positions
they enter into. Naturally, the perspectives are not comprehensive, and they may overlap (indeed,
BI trading is a sequence of small OE trades); the objectives may have different priorities, and the
priorities may differ between short and longer timescales.


1


Market participants in LOBs can execute trades as (liquidity) takers, makers (liquidity providers),
or as a combination of both. Maker orders (that is, passive limit orders posted at the top bid/ask
price, or deeper into the book) [1] offer a better price (by at least the spread) and significantly lower
trading fees, sometimes even earning a rebate. These advantages may suggest that maker orders
are a more cost-effective way to execute trades than taker orders (market orders or marketable
limit orders). However, they also come with two notable disadvantages.


First, maker orders face _execution uncertainty_ : they do not fill immediately and may not fill at
all, resulting in a fill probability less than 1; market orders have a fill probability of 1. [2] Second,
there is a negative correlation between a maker order’s fill probability and its subsequent return
conditioned on filling. This effect, termed the _negative drift_ of maker orders by DeLise [2024], is
especially pronounced at the short timescales which are the primary focus of our paper. A simple
mechanical fact underpins this observation. If the next price move is against a maker order in
the top-of-book queue, that order automatically fills, with probability 1, a phenomenon often
referred to as _adverse selection_ Menkveld [2013]. Such price moves are often driven by short-lived
opportunities, perhaps even amounting to arbitrage, arising as prices adjust with a lag to external
signals, exposing makers to the risk of trading at stale quotes (termed _toxic arbitrages_ in Foucault
et al. [2016b]). If, in contrast, the next price change is both in the same direction as that of the
maker order and occurs before the order is filled, then the order may no longer be at the top of the
book, thus not profiting from the favorable price change. In summary, the fundamental challenge
for maker strategies is to achieve both a high fill probability and a positive return if filled: the
trade-off between those two aspects renders profitable maker trading inherently difficult. Few
academic studies examine it in detail or propose ways to walk that tightrope; we see below that
this may necessitate submitting orders under apparently adverse conditions using an additional
signal (without which the orders would be money-losing).


Market orders, in contrast, fill with probability 1 (although a large order may still walk the
book, and thereby cause an immediate price change as above). Moreover, simple strategies such
as trading in the direction of the order imbalance between the top bid and ask queues (formally
defined in (1) below) have been shown to yield positive short-term returns Lipton et al. [2013],
Stoikov [2017]. The challenge to the liquidity-taking trader is to achieve positive returns exceeding
the exchange’s taker fee, which can be viewed as the profitability threshold.


We investigate these trade-offs using an experimental approach on the most liquid crypto
market worldwide, the Binance USDT-margined bitcoin perpetual. [3] We have assembled a data set
comprising 232,897 minimum-sized maker orders submitted over a one-week period, agnostic to
any trading signal. If not filled by a taker order arrival, the orders remained in the queue and
were canceled if and only if a price change left them posted at a deeper level in the book, i.e., no
longer at the touch. This data set allows us to address the following questions:


1In the academic literature, ‘limit order’ often refers exclusively to same-side maker orders (passive buy orders on
the bid side, sell orders on the ask side). In practice, limit orders can also be posted on the ‘other’ side of the book, as
_marketable limit orders_, for example a buy limit order posted at the top ask price. Such an order executes immediately as
a taker order (paying the taker fee) against any passive orders from the top of the book to the limit price, with the
remainder forming a new queue of one maker order at the limit price. We adopt this more precise terminology—where
a limit order can act as a maker, a taker, or a combination—and encourage other academics to do the same.
2Marketable limit orders have a fill probability slightly below 1, see Cartea et al. [2021].
3If the Binance Bitcoin perpetual were a stock traded on the NASDAQ, it would rank first in terms of average daily
trading volume and fifth in terms of market capitalization at the time of writing (August 9th, 2024). For more details,
see https://www.nasdaq.com/market-activity/daily-market-statistics.


2


1. How likely is a maker order to be filled, and what can we infer about the probability of
larger orders filling based on our data for minimum-sized orders? We investigate this in
relation to the already-posted quantities at the top bid and top ask.


2. How can we update our estimate of an order’s fill probability when those quantities change
after the order’s submission (i.e., while it is in the queue), and how does this inform our
understanding of larger order fills?


3. What distinguishes filled orders yielding positive returns from those achieving negative
returns?


4. What is the relationship between an order’s queue position and its subsequent return upon
filling?


5. What strategy can traders employ to post maker orders that have a high probability of filling
and concurrently a positive expected return conditioned on filling?


We address the questions of fill probability and price drift of maker orders posted at the best
prices (top bid and top ask); these price levels are of paramount importance for practitioners
because the majority of trading volume (both maker and taker) occurs at them. We also note that,
on Binance, the spread is virtually always one tick wide, except fleetingly after price changes,
whereupon there is fierce competition to close the spread immediately.


**1.1 Related Literature and Context**


At first sight, we have posed relatively specific microstructural questions. However, being generic,
they sit in, and contribute to, a far broader context than the Bitcoin market that we study.
We therefore begin with a high-level overview of relevant topics and related literature, before
proceeding to a more detailed analysis in the sections that follow.


_1.1.1 Maker Order Execution_


The study of fill probabilities for maker orders has garnered significant interest in the literature.
One should distinguish between estimating (experimentally) the fill probability of randomly
placed orders, agnostic to any trading or cancellation signal, and inferring (from historical LOB
data) the fill probability of actual orders placed by market participants. The former is a more
fundamental question: if one were to post an order, perhaps conditioned on the order book state
or other observable information, how likely is that order to fill? The latter question examines the
behavior of market participants, determining the fill frequency of the orders they chose to place.
While both are of interest, the practical applicability of the latter is subject to systematic biases,
which we will refer to as _signal bias_ : the estimated fill probabilities are implicitly conditioned on
the trader’s decision _not_ to cancel the order, with the trader following a cancellation policy that is
a priori unknown to us—and the importance of this can hardly be overstated given that _>_ 95% of
submitted maker orders are cancelled; see Gould et al. [2010] and Brogaard et al. [2014]. Traders
generally also follow private, a priori unknown order submission policies, e.g., submitting only
when they deem adverse selection to be unlikely.


Two recent works, Fabre and Ragel [2023] and Lokin and Yu [2024], use the latter approach
concerning the behavior of market participants, albeit without explicitly highlighting the important
distinction explained above. Fabre and Ragel [2023] conclude that fill probabilities are significantly


3


influenced by market conditions such as bid-ask spread, order size, and liquidity imbalance.
Meanwhile, Lokin and Yu [2024] develop a stochastic model of LOB dynamics as a state-dependent
queueing system and estimate fill probabilities of maker orders within that framework, concluding
that this can be done to a reasonable degree of accuracy. The estimated fill probabilities can
differ significantly depending on which of the two aforementioned questions one seeks to answer;
for instance, Lokin and Yu [2024] reports a fill probability of less than 2% for orders placed by
other market participants when the spread is one tick wide and bid and ask queues are balanced,
compared to the 50% fill probability we find in the same situation. This is largely a cancellation
effect: real makers cancel orders, biasing historical estimates low, while our no-cancellation policy
yields a baseline unaffected by private signals (as discussed further in Section 6).


The primary motivation outlined in the strand of literature addressing the more fundamental
question is the trade-off between maker and taker orders: maker orders offer better prices and fees [4]

but do not execute immediately and may fail to execute at all. A number of recent papers have
explored this topic. In Maglaras et al. [2021], the authors simulate synthetic top-of-book maker
orders [5] on the NASDAQ exchange and record whether or not they fill, as well as their time-to-fill,
given actual market activity after the submission of the synthetic maker order. They then construct
a deep learning-based model to predict fill probabilities and the conditional expected fill times,
which outperforms benchmarks. The more recent work by Arroyo et al. [2023] is similar in spirit
but differs in methodology: they employ convolutional neural networks and transformers to
perform survival analysis of maker orders, including ones posted at deeper levels in the order
book. However, they do not distinguish the side of the book in which the order is posted relative
to the imbalance, leading to inaccurate estimates when comparing the fill probabilities of two
opposite-side orders posted at the same depth in a skewed order book imbalance (one which is
bid-dominated or ask-dominated).


We add to this strand of literature as follows. Our data set of actual orders and their outcomes
is free from signal-bias, and unlike a synthetic-order approach, not reliant on a posteriori inference
of when such a synthetic order might have filled. [6] We leverage our data to analyze fill probabilities
of maker orders, and demonstrate that they can be described in simple terms, and indeed be
predicted with a high degree of accuracy, as a function of top-of-book quantities and an order’s
queue position, calling into question the need for black-box machinery lacking interpretability
and ease of replicability to solve what turns out to be a relatively simple problem.


_1.1.2 Trade-offs and Trading Decisions_


As well as using our data set to estimate fill probabilities, we use it to illustrate the difficulty
of leveraging that knowledge (or predictability) into trading edge. In particular, in addition to
the trade-off between price and immediacy of execution, we highlight the trade-off between fill
probability itself and the subsequent returns of filled orders. We support our earlier assertions:
first, that it is not at all easy to combine a high fill probability for maker orders with a positive
subsequent return, due to one or other of adverse selection if filled, and low fill probability when
subsequent returns are good; and second, for taker orders, to achieve short-term returns in excess


4Though, as far as we are aware, the fee improvement is left unmentioned in the existing literature.
5That is, fictitious orders ‘inserted’ at the back of the relevant queue, whose subsequent queue place and execution
(or not) can be tracked using subsequent LOB-evolution data. Note, however, that, unlike real orders, they have no
effect on the LOB dynamics.
6Such inferences may be possible with a reasonable degree of accuracy, but they are still open to error, in some cases
due to factors such as latency.


4


of the taker fee. One can see this as an instance of an ‘Unprofitability Principle’ stated in cartoon
form as
Ease of prediction _×_ ease of exploitation _< c_


for some positive constant _c_ .


Adverse selection of maker orders has been studied in early works such as Foucault et al.

[2003] which discusses the need for market makers to monitor information sources to cancel stale
quotes, while Foucault et al. [2016a] and Foucault et al. [2016b] examine the adverse selection
risks market makers face from informed HFT takers reacting to news or arbitrageurs exploiting
short-lived price adjustments. More recently, DeLise [2024] provided a more granular examination
of adverse selection by analyzing post-fill price trajectories of maker orders. Our contribution
extending these works lies in a precise description of the relationship between fill probability and
post-fill returns at small timescales, and in demonstrating how this relationship shapes the way in
which market makers should go about constructing their strategies.


To illustrate the role of trade-offs, suppose a trader decides whether or not to employ maker
orders on the basis of their estimated fill probability (however obtained), posting an order if this
is deemed sufficiently high. The fill probability/subsequent return trade-off means that the trader
may inadvertently submit orders to the shorter of the bid and ask queues which, as we suggest
above, makes them likely to suffer significant adverse immediate price movement. This is clearly
detrimental for market makers and BI traders more generally, as an adverse price movement after
a fill yields a trading loss if the filled order is later unwound at a worse price. In the OE setting, it
is equally problematic: although no ‘loss’ resulting from the adverse price movement needs to be
realized, there is an opportunity cost in that the position might have been entered later at a better
price. The outcome may be a disappointed client and a loss of repeat business for the trader.


_1.1.3 Trading with Signals_


We have noted (and analyze in more detail below) that some apparently natural strategies drawing
on basic publicly available information (for example, posting a taker order in the direction of
the imbalance or a maker order with high fill probability) may not yield a trading advantage. A
trader may, however, take a more positive view if they have extra information in the form of a
private signal, for example algorithmically generated.


Suppose, for example, that the top bid queue is large and the top ask queue is small, a situation
we describe as a price-positive imbalance. [7] Intuitively, it is then likely that the shorter (ask) queue
is the first to empty, in which case the spread widens and may be refilled with a new queue on
the bid side, giving a price increase. This argument is corroborated in practice: it is well known
that imbalance is positively correlated with the direction the next price movement. (For further
insights, refer to Gould and Bonart [2015].) Now suppose that a trader supplements this modestly
return-positive signal with a convincing private signal, suggesting an enhanced short-term return.
How best to capitalize on this opportunity? Submitting a maker order at the end of the large
bid queue is unlikely to result in a fill, and thus may not profit from the prediction (in the less
frequent instances where it does fill, the short-term return is likely to be negative, as we discuss
in more detail in Section 5). Alternatively, a taker order is certain to fill and benefit from any


7In markets with large relative tick sizes (in basis points) or substantial maker rebates such as ours, liquidity
typically concentrates at the top bid and ask levels, and a high fraction of overall trading volume executes against them
Menkveld [2013].


5


favorable price change; but they must pay the taker fee.


Now, suppose the queues are as before (the imbalance is price-positive), but the trader’s private
signal, in which they have high confidence, predicts a price decline. A sell maker order (ask side),
counter-trading the imbalance, has a high fill probability due to the small queue and, if the private
signal is correct, results in a profitable trade. A sell taker order, however, incurs a higher fee and
crosses the spread.


These arguments illustrate the important point that the choice of order type and execution mode
depends on the kind of signal in response to which the trader makes decisions. The literature
contains numerous discussions of trading with signals, often under the umbrella term _‘optimal_
_market making’_ when they involve maker orders. For instance, Cartea and Sanchez-Betancourt´

[2023] conclude that predictive signals, referred to as alpha signals, can boost market maker
profitability. Their conclusions are arrived at under the assumption that maker orders fill upon
the arrival of the next opposite-direction taker order; that is, the maker order is always at the
front of the queue. As just argued, and discussed in more detail later, this is not generally tenable.
Other papers such as Fushimi and Rojas [2018] and Ait-Sahalia and Saglam [2013] rely on the
same assumption, while others still make different assumptions which are also problematic: for
example, Spooner et al. [2018] assumes that cancellations remove liquidity uniformly from the
queue.


Our contribution in this context also addresses the last question from Section 1: we develop
a model to identify when the order book imbalance falsely predicts the next price change. We
term this a _reversal_ and discuss it further in Section 7. The ease with which those situations are
parlayed into a trading advantage (by placing a maker order counter to the imbalance) suggests,
in line with the Unprofitability Principle, that making accurate predictions is hard. Indeed, to
make economically significant predictions, we found it necessary to carefully develop a set of
features that capture relevant microstructural patterns in past order flow and price movements.


Our examples above further illustrate the influence of queue position—whether submitting
at the end of a long queue or a short one—on an order’s fill probability and the effectiveness
of using maker orders to act on a trading signal. For example, posting maker orders in the
direction of the imbalance implies posting at the back of the longer of the bid- and ask queues,
unless one is the first to close the spread after a price change, which is extremely competitive and
typically involves latency optimization and/or special order types. Conversely, one can obtain
a good queue position (in the shorter of the two queues) by posting a maker order opposite to
the imbalance-implied movement, but this entails trading against the expected return. Although
queue position is rather sparsely addressed in the academic literature, Moallemi and Yuan [2016]
find that bad queue positions are associated with lower fill probabilities and increased adverse
selection, findings that our results corroborate; additionally, Donnelly and Gan [2018] explore the
interplay of queue position, adverse selection, and cancellation behavior, showing that within
their modeling framework, the optimal strategy sometimes involves submitting an order counter
to the imbalance to benefit from a queue position close to the front-of-queue, a result that is in
agreement with our findings.


**1.2 Notation and Definitions**


Our analysis is set in a standard LOB, a data structure that records queues of maker orders waiting
to be executed or canceled, prioritized by price and then by time of arrival, and quantized by the


6


minimum order size, at price levels incremented by the tick size. The state of the order book at
time _t_ is defined by the bid and ask sides:




  
      -       _Bt_ := _p_ _[b]_ _t_, _i_ [,] _[ Q][b]_ _t_, _i_ [,] _q_ _[b]_ _t_, _i_, _j_








      
           -            , _At_ := _pt_ _[a]_, _i_ [,] _[ Q]_ _t_ _[a]_, _i_ [,] _qt_ _[a]_, _i_, _j_
_i_ =1,2,3, _···_ _j_







_j_



_j_



_i_ =1,2,3, _···_



where _p_ _[b]_ _t_, _i_ [and] _[ p]_ _t_ _[a]_, _i_ [represent bid and ask prices,] _[ Q]_ _t_ _[b]_, _i_ [and] _[ Q]_ _t_ _[a]_, _i_ [the total quantities available, and]

- - - _q_ _[b]_ _t_, _i_, _j_ _qt_ _[a]_, _i_, _j_

_j_ [and] _j_ [the sequences of individual order quantities, ordered by arrival time, at those]

prices. We use the notational convention _Bt_ := _Q_ _[b]_ _t_,1 [and] _[ A][t]_ [ :][=] _[ Q]_ _t_ _[a]_,1 [to represent the top-of-book]
quantities.


We further introduce the _order book imbalance_,




  -   _qt_ _[a]_, _i_, _j_
_j_ [and]



_j_ [the sequences of individual order quantities, ordered by arrival time, at those]



imb _t_ := _[B][t][ −]_ _[A][t]_ _∈_ ( _−_ 1, 1). (1)

_Bt_ + _At_


Its value is close to +1 when the liquidity is significantly greater at the top bid level than at the
top ask level, and conversely for values near _−_ 1. As noted above, these extremes are associated
with price increases and decreases respectively.


We focus exclusively on those maker orders posted at the top level (and taker orders filling
them), meaning sell orders at the top ask price _pt_ _[a]_,1 [and buy orders at the top bid price] _[ p]_ _t_ _[b]_,1 [. These]
two order book levels hold a special significance as a large fraction of overall trading volume is
executed against orders posted at the touch, making them especially important for market makers.
For brevity, we shall use the term _maker order_ to mean exclusively a maker order posted at one
of the two top levels. The analysis of maker orders posted at deeper levels in the LOB requires
different tools and is beyond the scope of this paper.


We now introduce some conventions and define key properties of maker orders posted at the
touch. We designate the queue (resp. side) in which they are posted (bid for a buy order and
ask for a sell) as the _near-side_ queue (resp. side), and the other queue/side (ask for a buy order,
bid for a sell) as the _opposite-side_ queue/side. The respective prices are _p_ [near] _t_,1 and _p_ [opp] _t_,1 [, while the]
respective queue sizes are _Q_ [near] _t_ and _Q_ [opp] _t_ . In our later discussions of order book mechanics, the
reader may find it helpful to visualize a buy maker order submitted to the bid (near) side, with
the ask side being opposite.

We say that the order book imbalance imb _t_ is _favorable_ for an order if it is associated with a
subsequent positive return on the order, subject to the thresholds imb _t >_ 0.5 for a buy order and
imb _t < −_ 0.5 for a sell order. Conversely, we say it is _adverse_ .



Consider a buy order (and analogously for sell orders) o posted at the top bid price _p_ _[b]_ _t_,1 [at time]




            -             _t_, indexed by _j_ 0 in the sequence _q_ _[b]_ _t_,1, _j_



_j_ [of individual order quantities. As illustrated in Figure][ 1][,]



we define the _liquidity ahead_ of the order as the total quantity of all preceding orders in the queue:


LA _t_ (o) := ∑ _q_ _[b]_ _t_,1, _j_ [.]
_j<j_ 0


7


Similarly, the _liquidity behind_ of the order is the total quantity of subsequent orders in the queue:


LB _t_ (o) := ∑ _q_ _[b]_ _t_,1, _j_ [.]
_j>j_ 0


Finally, the order’s _queue position_ in the near-side queue is defined as


LA _t_ LA _t_
QP _t_ (o) := =, max(LA _t_, LB _t_ ) _>_ 0,
_Bt −_ _q_ _[b]_ _t_,1, _j_ 0 LA _t_ + LB _t_


and equal to 0 when there are no other orders in the queue (LA _t_ = LB _t_ = 0). An order whose
queue position is 0 is at the front of the queue; if it is 1, the order is at the back.


Figure 1: Visualization of the order properties introduced above.


Note that LA _t_ (o), LB _t_ (o), and QP _t_ (o) —are time series over the time interval from the moment
the order is inserted into the queue until it is removed by being filled or canceled. Every book
update spawns a new value in the time series of each extant order. Additionally, note that the
liquidity ahead LA _t_ (o) decreases over time, since new orders cannot be inserted into the queue at
an earlier position than any existing order.


An order o has a _post time t_ 0(o) and a _terminal time T_ (o), at which the order is either filled or
canceled; that, in our experimental design, an order is canceled if and only if the price level at
which it is posted ceases to be; the top-of-book on its respective side.


We describe _price drift_ for maker and taker orders using the microprice at time _t_ ; this is
calculated as the quantity-weighted average of the top bid and ask prices:


_Bt_ _pt_ _[a]_,1 [+] _[ A][t]_ _[p]_ _t_ _[b]_,1 _Q_ [near] _t_ _p_ [opp] _t_,1 [+] _[ Q]_ [opp] _t_ _p_ [near] _t_,1
_p_ _[µ]_ _t_ [:][=] =,
_Bt_ + _At_ _Q_ [near] _t_ + _Q_ ~~[opp]~~ _t_


while the midprice is calculated as the simple average of the top bid and ask prices:


_pt_ _[a]_,1 [+] _[ p]_ _t_ _[b]_,1 _p_ [near] _t_,1 + _p_ [opp] _t_,1
_p_ [mid] _t_ := 2 = 2 .


Consider an order o (either maker or taker) posted at time _t_ 0 when the top-of-book price is
_pt_ 0. [8] We define a sign function, sgn(o), equal to +1 for buy orders and _−_ 1 for sell orders, and


8Conventionally, for a maker order, _pt_ 0 is the top price on the near-side, while for a taker order, it is the top price on
the opposite-side.


8


multiply the drift values by this sign to obtain a direction-independent measure, with positive
(negative) values indicating favorable (adverse) drift.

Supposing o fills, we write _t_ 0 + _τ_ 0 for its fill time. [9] The order’s (instantaneous) _price drift_,
measured in bp, is defined as the signed microprice return when the midprice remains unchanged;
otherwise, it is the return:



sgn(o) - _p_ [mid] _tp_ 0 _t_ +0 _τ_ 0 _−_ 1� _·_ 10000, else.



(2)



dr(o) :=















sgn(o) - _p_ _[µ]_ _tp_ 0 _t_ +0 _τ_ 0 _−_ 1� _·_ 10000, if _p_ [mid] _t_ 0 = _p_ [mid] _t_ 0+ _τ_ 0 [,]



We further define variants of this at longer time scales: the order’s _price drift after τ > τ_ 0 _seconds_
is defined as







dr _τ_ (o) := sgn(o)




- _p_ _[µ]_ _t_ 0+ _τ_ _−_ 1
_pt_ 0




_·_ 10000. (3)



**Contributions.** We present a large-scale live trading experiment (Section 2) involving hundreds of
thousands of randomly placed maker orders, ensuring the absence of signal-bias typical in many
data sets. We analyze fill probabilities at the top of the book and show how queue sizes and order
positions affect a maker order’s likelihood of execution (Section 4). We then demonstrate a tradeoff between fill probability and short-term post-fill returns, since large queues and front-of-queue
positions often yield the most favorable returns but suffer lower fill rates (Sections 5 and 6). We
further illustrate that taker strategies are constrained by often-prohibitive fees, while successful
maker trading requires exploiting conditions in which order book imbalance reverses, producing
favorable outcomes despite fundamental signals pointing in the opposite direction (Section 7).


**2 Data Acquisition**


Our data was collected through live trading experiments carried out on Binance’s linear Bitcoin
perpetual market, the most liquid crypto market globally.


**Experimental design.** We conducted two separate experiments, each operating under a different
quoting mode:


1. **Continuous Quoting Mode:** We continuously quoted on both sides of the market: we
always maintained an active buy order at the top bid price and an active sell order at the
top ask price. If the top bid price moved up or the top ask price moved down without the
respective orders filling, we canceled and reposted them at the updated top price. Similarly,
if an order filled, we immediately posted a new one at the top-of-book price on the respective
side. We ran our experiment for one week, from February 12 to 19, 2024, during which we
submitted 232,897 minimum-sized maker orders, of which 127,051 filled, and 105,846 were
canceled unfilled.


9This denotes the time immediately after (rather than before or during) its processing in the exchange’s matching
engine: this is when a maker order has been removed from the queue, or a taker order has removed other liquidity
from the queue. For taker orders, _τ_ 0 is typically very small, as these orders are processed quickly.


9


2. **Periodic Quoting Mode:** Every ten seconds, we independently submitted a buy order at
the top bid price and a sell order at the top ask price (regardless of inventory, order history,
or active orders). If the top bid or ask price changed, leaving the respective order posted
deeper in the book, we canceled it. This experiment ran from August 21 to 31, 2024, during
which we submitted 172,800 minimum-sized maker orders, of which 95,998 filled, with the
remainder canceled unfilled.


The results from both modes were essentially identical and we present findings from the
Continuous Quoting Mode in this paper. The resulting dataset of orders is denoted _O_ and
contains each order’s limit price, submission timestamp, and terminal state (filled or canceled).


**Alternative forms of data.** A key contribution of this paper is its experimental methodology. We
chose to collect data via live trading experiments to obtain a signal-bias-free dataset, overcoming
the inherent limitations of alternative methods, of which there are three broad categories:


1. **Synthetic orders:** This involves the hypothetical placement of synthetic orders within
observed market data and tracking their outcomes based on subsequent real market events.
The synthetic order placement creates a hypothetical LOB state that includes the order;
its potential market impact is ignored, an assumption that is particularly problematic if
the order size is large. Even with full L3 data, this method cannot guarantee that a fill is
realizable in the real world, and with Binance’s L2 data, accurately tracking an order’s queue
position—and thus its outcome—is impossible.


2. **Passive use of existing orders:** This involves observing already-placed orders by other
market participants and it is subject to biases inherent in the orders of other market
participants, as discussed in Section 1.1.1. Moreover, this method cannot ensure that
the analyzed orders originate from the same trader; in a competitive market with many
active participants, the lack of trader identifiability makes this highly unlikely.


3. **Simulation:** This is a broad category, ranging from simulating the entire LOB’s evolution
to more limited short-term forward simulations for determining an order’s outcome. Such
methods are entirely unsuitable for our analysis due to their generally poor data fidelity, as
these simulators are often designed merely to replicate a set of stylized facts.


Table 2 presents a comparative overview of the different data acquisition methods, highlighting
their respective advantages and disadvantages.


**Market microstructure and fees.** Like most crypto exchanges, Binance employs a tiered fee
structure where trading volume is the main factor, though not the only one; under its most
favorable tier, the taker fee is 1.5 bp and the maker fee is _−_ 0.5 bp (i.e., a rebate for maker orders).
The tick size is 0.1 USD, or approximately 0.03 bp at the time of the experiment, which is negligible
compared to fees. The market generally exhibits robust liquidity, with several hundred thousand
USD available at the top bid and ask levels, and a spread that is virtually always one tick wide. In
the subsequent analysis, we assume the best possible trading fees; naturally, any strategy results
analyzed below would only deteriorate with less favorable fees.


**3 The Two Fundamental Attributes for Maker Orders**


We now expand on some of our earlier observations, examining the risk profile of an order (maker
or taker). This has four basic attributes: fill price, trading fee, fill probability, and price drift. These


10


Figure 2: Comparison of alternative forms of data, assessed along six dimensions: whether fills
are guaranteed to be realizable in the real world (realizable event); whether latency effects are
accounted for (latency); whether the data allows for the analysis of single-trader strategies or
if the orders may stem from different traders (trader identifiability); whether analysis extends
beyond minimum-sized orders (order sizing); the fidelity of data to real-world trading (fidelity to
data); and the presence of biases in the analyzed orders (signal bias).


four attributes are the most base-level factors determining the (unrealized) PnL of an individual
order (maker or taker) and, by extension, the realized PnL of a BI strategy. Other factors such as
volatility, liquidity levels or a broader information set (from which trading signals may be derived)
also affect the PnLs, but they do so through the four basic attributes.


We note the caveat that, while latency is a crucial aspect of trading affecting both maker
and taker orders, [10] to avoid lengthy technical digressions we treat latency as being negligible.
This simplifies our arguments; on the whole, a meticulous treatment of latency reinforces our
conclusions.


Figure 3: Comparison of key attributes of maker and taker orders.


Table 3 shows a comparison of the aforementioned four attributes for a maker order posted


10For a detailed examination of its impact on taker order execution see Albers et al. [2024]; similar effects apply to
maker orders.


11


at the touch versus a market order. In either case, two attributes are favorable while two pose
challenges.


To fix ideas, consider the case of a buy order (a sell order being the converse). The first two
rows of Table 3 show the attributes that are favorable for maker orders but unfavorable for taker
orders. Recalling that we neglect latency, a maker buy order has price certainty as its price is fixed
at the top bid price at submission time. A taker buy order executes at an _a priori_ uncertain price,
which is at least as high as the top ask price, which itself is at least one tick worse than the top
bid. More significantly, maker orders enjoy a low exchange fee (or even receive a rebate), while
taker orders in contrast incur a considerably higher taker fee.


The remaining rows of Table 3 list attributes which are favorable for taker orders and unfavorable for maker orders. While the two attributes favorable to maker orders—fill price and trading
fee—are observable at the time of posting, the two unfavorable ones, namely fill probability and
price drift (explored in detail below), are unknown and effectively stochastic: they can be highly
variable, making them interesting to analyze. We term them _the two fundamental attributes of maker_
_orders_ .


Taker orders always fill immediately, whereas maker orders have a fill probability less than 1
and fill some time after submission (if at all). Immediate price drift is favorable to taker orders.
When a taker buy order is executed, it removes liquidity from the top ask price queue; where this
does not consume the whole queue, it instantaneously increases both the order book imbalance
and the microprice, while an order that is large enough to clear the entire queue directly causes the
spread to widen upwards, with an increase in the mid-price. Both of these result in an immediate
favorable change in the first post-fill order book snapshot, hence the positive immediate price drift
(see Equation 2).


The situation is reversed for maker orders. If a maker buy order, posted in the top bid queue,
is filled, a sell taker order must have removed liquidity from the bid side. If the queue remains
non-empty immediately after the fill, the microprice decreases and the order book imbalance
skews more price-negative; if the taker order is large enough to clear the top bid queue, the spread
widens downwards and the mid-price decreases.


It is natural to ask whether this initial movement persists for longer times. A mid-price move
might be counteracted by trades in the opposite direction, for example refilling the queue hit by the
taker order that first caused the spread to widen with associated immediate price drift. However,
as widely acknowledged in the literature Lipton et al. [2013], Gould and Bonart [2015], Lehalle
and Mounjid [2016], Stoikov [2017], there is a positive correlation between order book imbalance
and subsequent asset price movements, typically observed over short time scales ranging from
milliseconds to seconds. Moreover, if the taker order causes an immediate mid-price movement,
the well-documented autocorrelation of high-frequency returns suggests that this trend is likely
to continue in the short term. Our empirical evidence confirms these statements, and in Section
7, we explore why the correlations involved are less than 1: the fill-producing initial movement
occasionally reverts. This class of cases is of paramount importance in market making, as we shall
see later. In summary, maker orders experience negative instantaneous price drift and negative
expected price drift over longer time scales, amounting to adverse selection.


12


**4 Fill Probabilities**


Suppose o is a maker order submitted at time _t_ 0 to the near-side queue, and consider how its
fill probability depends on LA _t_ (o) on the near side and the opposite-side queue size _Q_ [opp] _t_ . We
present two informal arguments, the first concerning LA _t_ (o) and the second concerning _Q_ [opp] _t_, and
validate their predictions against our empirical data.

**1: Near-side liquidity.** The order fills at time _T_ (o) _> t_ 0 if and only if at that time a sell
taker order is processed within the exchange matching engine and its quantity exceeds the
order’s liquidity ahead, LA _T_ (o), consuming o and all maker orders earlier in the queue. Since
the arrival probability of a taker order with size less than a given quantity decreases as that
quantity decreases, for times _t_ 0 _< t ≤_ _T_ we would expect less liquidity ahead to yield a higher fill
probability. Furthermore, since LA _t_ (o) _≤_ LA _t_ 0(o), the order o is certain to fill if, while it remains
active in the book, a taker order arrives at its price level with size exceeding LA _t_ 0(o). Therefore,
we would generally expect orders posted on a small near-side queue to have a high likelihood of
filling.

**2: Opposite-side liquidity.** The opposite-side queue size _Q_ [opp] _t_ influences the fill probability of

- via a more indirect mechanism. When _Q_ [opp] _t_ is small, other things being equal, a price increase
becomes likely, as only a small taker quantity is required to cause it. Conversely, when _Q_ [opp] _t_ is
large, a price increase is less likely, this increases the residence time of o in the bid queue and
thereby increases the time available for a taker order exceeding LA _t_ (o) to arrive.

In summary, the combination of (LA _t_ (o), _Q_ [opp] _t_ ) significantly influences the fill probability of o,
with lower values of LA _t_ (o) and higher values of _Q_ [opp] _t_ both contributing to higher fill probabilities.


**Empirical Validation.** We now examine how fill frequencies (sometimes also referred to as
empirical fill probabilities) depend empirically on the conditions at the order’s submission time
_t_ 0(o). Specifically, we analyze the fill frequency conditioned on the near-side queue size at the time
of submission _Q_ [near] _t_ 0 (equivalent to the order’s initial liquidity ahead) and the initial opposite-side
queue size _Q_ [opp] _t_ 0 [; namely, the probability]


           P           - fills _| Q_ [near] _t_ 0(o) [=] _[ Q]_ [near][,] _[ Q]_ [opp] _t_ 0(o) [=] _[ Q]_ [opp][�] .


To obtain our empirical estimate, we employ an equal-width binning approach for _Q_ [near] and
_Q_ [opp] . Specifically, we divide the range of these variables—from their minimum observed values
to their 99th percentiles during the sample period—into 20 equal-width bins, using the 99th
percentile instead of the maximum to avoid skewing the analysis with very occasional large
orders. Queue sizes exceeding the 99th percentile are included in the largest bin. We thus obtain a
two-dimensional grid of bin pairs ( _Q_ [near] _i_, _Q_ [opp] _j_ ), for _i_, _j ∈{_ 1, _· · ·_, 20 _}_ . The bins were constructed
mindful of the balance between (1) having enough data points in each bin pair to ensure reliable
empirical estimates and (2) obtaining a high level of granularity in the data representation.

For each bin pair ( _Q_ [near] _i_, _Q_ [opp] _j_ ), we calculate the empirical fill probability as the proportion of

orders whose _Q_ [near] _t_ 0 and _Q_ [opp] _t_ 0 fall within the bins that are filled. We denote by _z_ = pr( _Q_ [near], _Q_ [opp] )
a suitable smooth approximation (we used a Delaunay triangulation-based interpolation) to the
binned frequency data, shown in Figure 4. The plot reveals that fill probability decreases with
the near-side queue size _Q_ [near] and increases with the opposite-side queue size _Q_ [opp] . Orders


13


Figure 4: Fill probability as a function of near and opposite-side queue sizes (in USD).


14


submitted when the near-side queue is large and the opposite-side queue is small have a low fill
probability, as low as 30%. Conversely, the fill probability exceeds 90% when the near-side queue
is very small and the opposite-side queue is very large.


The highest fill probabilities occur when there is a large opposite-side queue and a nearly
empty near-side queue, implying an adverse order book imbalance; however, the plot clearly
shows that fill probabilities are not a function of imbalance alone, as the imbalance is constant
along lines on which _Q_ [near] / _Q_ [opp] is constant.


To further quantify the relationship between fill probability, queue sizes, and imbalance, we
fitted an ordinary least-squares (OLS) regression model to the surface shown in Figure 4. For this
analysis, the queue size variables were normalized (by dividing by their 99th percentile values) to
ensure their coefficients are on a comparable scale. The regression model takes the form:


_z_ = _β_ 0 + _β_ 1 _Q_ [near] + _β_ 2 _Q_ [opp] + _β_ 3imb + _ϵ_,


where _z_ represents the fill probability, _Q_ [near] and _Q_ [opp] denote the normalized opposite-side and
near-side queue sizes (with a slight abuse of notation, we reuse these symbols for simplicity),
and imb := ( _Q_ [near] _−_ _Q_ [opp] )/( _Q_ [near] + _Q_ [opp] ) represents the imbalance. The model achieves an _R_ [2]

of 0.946, indicating a near-perfect fit to the data, and underscoring that fill probabilities can be
estimated with minimal complexity.

The estimated coefficients are _β_ 0 = 0.5649, _β_ 1 = 0.0159, _β_ 2 = 0.1013, and _β_ 3 = _−_ 0.3166. The
p-values show that all terms are statistically significant except _Q_ [opp] (p = 0.065), with the dominant
drivers being the near-side queue size (p = 0.000) and imbalance (p = 0.000).


**Intermediate Times** Thus far, we have only focused on estimating an order’s fill probability
based on information available at the time of submission. Can we update this estimate for an
order o at an intermediate time _t > t_ 0(o), given LA _t_ (o) and _Q_ [opp] _t_ ?

A basic “zero-intelligence” approach, ignoring LB _t_ (o) and potential responses of other traders
to the size of the whole near-side queue, including LB _t_ (o), might suggest that the fill probability
of o at time _t_ is the same as that of another order o _[′]_ at its initial time _t_ 0(o _[′]_ ) if they have the same

             -              
        -         liquidity ahead: LA _t_ (o), _Q_ [opp] _t_ = LA _t_ 0(o _′_ )(o _[′]_ ), _Q_ [opp] _t_ 0(o _[′]_ ) . The rationale is that the total quantity of
liquidity removal necessary to terminate the order, either on the near-side (giving a fill) or on the
opposite-side (giving a cancellation) is the same for both orders. However, a build-up of LB _t_ (o) is
likely to reduce the arrival rate of taker orders on the near-side, increase it on the opposite side,
reduce cancellations from the near-side (particularly for front-of-queue orders), and increase the
cancellation rate of opposite-side orders, as traders respond to the evolving imbalance. All of
these reactions tend to reduce the fill probability for o compared with o _[′]_ . This estimate is thus an
upper bound on the order’s fill probability at the intermediate time. The deviation from the true
fill probability is determined by the extent to which a non-zero LB _t_ (o) influences the decisions of
other traders.


To obtain a better estimate of intermediate-time fill probability, one could account for LB _t_ (o)
with a linear interpolation of the form QP _t_ pr(LB _t_, _Q_ [opp] _t_ ) + (1 _−_ QP _t_ ) pr(LA _t_, _Q_ [opp] _t_ ). We leave this
for future work, as it is not central to this paper; our L2 data, in which orders are aggregated for
each level, lacks the granularity needed for a precise analysis. In particular, the values of LA _t_ (o)


15


and LB _t_ (o) require L3 data, which is not available on the main cryptocurrency exchanges. [11]


**Larger Orders** Although we used minimum-sized orders due to cost constraints, we can use our
data to find the fill (full or partial) probability of a larger order. This is not difficult: the probability

                      -                      that an order o of any size _q_ fills fully, conditioned on LA _t_ 0(o)(o), _Q_ [opp] _t_ 0(o) is the same as the

                           -                           probability of another, minimum-sized, order o _[′]_ filling, conditioned on LA _t_ 0(o _′_ )(o _[′]_ ) + _q_, _Q_ [opp] _t_ 0(o _[′]_ ) .
One can proceed similarly for partial fills.


In conclusion, fill probabilities are relatively easy to predict based on queue sizes. However, the
ease of predictability does not translate into ease of exploitation for profit due to the trade-off
between fill probability and price drift, a topic we will explore in more detail in the next section.


**5 Price Drift**


Let us now address the second fundamental aspect of maker orders, namely the price drift, i.e.
subsequent return, they realize over short time scales if filled. As in the previous section, we begin
with two informal arguments derived from basic order book mechanics, before examining our
empirical data for confirmation.

**1: The near-side queue.** An order’s near-side queue size _Q_ [near] _t_ and queue position QP _t_ (o) both
influence its post-fill price drift. If the order is at the very end of the queue at the time _T_ (o) of its
execution, i.e., LB _T_ (o) = 0 (or equivalently QP _T_ = 1), then the very taker order that yielded the
fill also causes the midprice to move against the limit price of o, resulting in an adverse immediate
price movement. Conversely, if the value LB _T_ (o) is very large, then the midprice is less likely
to move adversely as a direct result of the fill: that could only happen if the taker order were
so large as to consume the whole near-side queue (which is at least as large as LB _T_ (o)). We
thus expect immediate (and probably subsequent) adverse selection to increase in magnitude the
smaller LB _T_ (o) is. An important class of examples where LB _T_ (o) is large includes orders with a
front-of-queue position (QP _T ≪_ 1) in a large near-side queue.

**2: The opposite-side queue.** Now consider the opposite-side queue size _Q_ [opp] _T_ at fill time. If
_Q_ [opp] _T_ is very small, then even a small trade suffices to produce a post-fill price change favorable
to the order o. Conversely, as _Q_ [opp] _T_ increases, this post-fill price move becomes increasingly less
likely. Altogether, we would therefore expect the degree of adverse selection—measured by the
conditional expected markout return—to worsen as the opposite-side queue size increases.


To summarize, we have argued that we should observe:


1. The degree of adverse selection decreases with LB _T_ (o). Orders with QP _T ≈_ 1 are likely
to generate negative returns regardless of queue sizes, while orders with QP _T ≈_ 0 may
generate positive returns if the near-side queue size is sufficiently large.

2. The degree of adverse selection is increasing in opposite-side queue size _Q_ [opp] _T_ .


**Empirical Validation.** Turning to our empirical evidence, we examine the empirical return
distributions of filled orders, conditioned on queue position and the sizes of both the near-side
and opposite-side queues. The return, which we refer to as the order’s _markout return_, is calculated


11Currently, as far as we are aware, the only exchanges that make L3 data available are Bitfinex, Coinbase, Bitstamp,
Kraken, and KuCoin.


16


in basis points by comparing the limit price of the filled order with the midprice one second after
the fill occurs—note that these returns do not include the maker rebate. We categorize the queue
sizes _Q_ [opp] _T_ and _Q_ [near] _T_ using three bins: large, medium, and small. These bins are defined based on
a quantile analysis of total queue sizes across our data set.

To calculate the exact fill-time queue position QP _T_ (o) for all filled orders o in our dataset, we
leveraged an idiosyncrasy of Binance’s public trades feed: for every taker order, the exchange
publishes all corresponding maker fills ordered by execution priority, each with unique identifiers.
Makers receive these same identifiers for their posted orders at submission-time, allowing them to
identify their order within a burst of maker fills after receiving a fill. By summing the sizes of
earlier fills in the burst and comparing this to the total queue size, either from the most recent
LOB snapshot or inferred when the taker order changes the price, makers can compute their exact
QP _T_ (o)–we applied this method to the minimum-sized fills from our experiment.

Building on this, we define bins for QP _T_ based on percentile ranges. For instance, 0% - 10%
(QP _T ∈_ [0, 0.1)) represents orders within the front 10% in the queue at the time of execution, while
75% - 100% (QP _T ∈_ [0.75, 1]) represents orders within the last quartile in the queue. We then
examine the empirical markout return distributions conditioned on a near-side queue size bin, an
opposite-side queue size bin, and a queue position bin.


**Large near-side queue, small opposite-side queue.** Here, the order book imbalance is favorable
to the order. We consider two extremes of queue position: the first decile (0% to 10%) and the
upper quartile (75% to 100%); we use a larger range here because there are fewer fills with late
queue positions).


The markout return histogram for fills with a front-of-queue position is shown in Figure 5, while
that for back-of-queue fills is shown in Figure 6. In each histogram, a positive return indicates a
favorable subsequent price move and negative returns indicate an adverse price movement. We
further provide summary statistics of the distributions illustrated in these histograms, as well as
others not shown, in Table 1.


The histograms reveal a striking difference in outcomes. For fills with a front-of-queue position,
the distribution’s mass is predominantly at positive values, with a notable spike at small positive
markout returns, as reflected in the average value of _−_ 0.058 bp. Conversely, fills from maker
orders at the back of the queue predominantly result in negative outcomes, with the majority of
the distribution’s mass being at negative values, and an average return of _−_ 0.775 bp. Notably,
the standard deviation of markout returns is also significantly larger for back-of-queue fills,
indicating greater variability in outcomes. These observations suggest that trading in the direction
of the order book imbalance with a maker order is only desirable if the order is filled from a
front-of-queue position. [12]


**Both queues large.** Markout return histograms for orders where both _Q_ [near] _T_ and _Q_ [opp] _T_ fall into
the “large” bin are shown in Figure 7 for fills from orders within the 0%-10% front-of-queue
position range, while those within the 75%-100% range are shown in Figure 8. Consistent with the
previous pair of histograms, we see significantly better outcomes for front-of-queue orders. The
outcomes are slightly worse on average (see Table 1) compared with the previous case, consistent


12As we shall see later, trading in the direction of the imbalance with a taker order does not generally outperform the
taker fee, rendering it a losing strategy overall.


17


Figure 5: Queue position: 0–10%
(front); large near-side queue; small
opposite-side queue.



Figure 6: Queue position: 75–100%
(back); large near-side queue; small
opposite-side queue.



with the less favorable order book imbalance in this scenario: the average markout return is _−_ 0.296
bp for front-of-queue fills and _−_ 1.157 bp for back-of-queue fills. The back-of-queue histogram, in
particular, shows that the vast majority of outcomes are adverse, with almost all fills resulting in
negative markout returns.



Figure 7: Queue position: 0–10%; large
near-side queue; large opposite-side
queue.



Figure 8: Queue position: 75–100%;
large near-side queue; large oppositeside queue.



**Small Near-side, Large Opposite-side Queue** The last pair of histograms in the main text
(additional histograms are available in the appendix) show markout returns for orders for which
_Q_ [near] _T_ is small and _Q_ [opp] _T_ is large, indicating that the order book imbalance is unfavorable. Outcomes
for front-of-queue positions are shown in Figure 9, with an average markout return of _−_ 0.539 bp
as reflected in Table 1, while those for back-of-queue positions are shown in Figure 10, where
the average markout return is slightly worse at _−_ 0.763 bp. Most outcomes in both cases are
adverse, with markout returns predominantly negative. Interestingly, the difference between the
two histograms is not significant, suggesting that when the queue is small, the queue position


18


does not matter much. This aligns with our previous discussion and makes economic sense: if the
queue is small, the liquidity behind an order at the beginning of the queue is not much different
from that of an order at the back of the queue.



Figure 9: Queue position: 0–10%; small
near-side queue; large opposite-side
queue.



Figure 10: Queue position: 75–100%;
small near-side queue; large oppositeside queue.



Histograms for mid-size queues are available in Appendix A. We omitted these here, along
with histograms for intermediate queue positions, as the transitions from small to mid to large
queue sizes, and from front-of-queue to middle-of-queue and to back-of-queue positions, are
smooth and do not offer materially different insights from those presented above.


Table 1: Summary statistics across different queue sizes and positions.


**Queue Size** **Queue Position** **Avg (bp)** **Min (bp)** **Max (bp)** **Std (bp)**
Large near, small opp. 0 - 0.1 _−_ 0.058 _−_ 9.2 6.3 1.0
0.1 - 0.4 _−_ 0.586 _−_ 9.5 7.0 1.3
0.4 - 0.75 _−_ 0.743 _−_ 8.6 6.0 1.3
0.75 - 1 _−_ 0.775 _−_ 27.3 9.5 1.6
Large near, large opp. 0 - 0.1 _−_ 0.296 _−_ 8.9 4.1 0.9
0.1 - 0.4 _−_ 0.882 _−_ 6.1 3.0 1.1
0.4 - 0.75 _−_ 0.967 _−_ 7.2 3.9 1.1
0.75 - 1 _−_ 1.157 _−_ 5.8 8.0 1.1
Small near, small opp. 0 - 0.1 _−_ 0.562 _−_ 16.7 18.8 1.6
0.1 - 0.4 _−_ 0.711 _−_ 13.8 8.8 1.8
0.4 - 0.75 _−_ 0.622 _−_ 14.0 17.3 1.9
0.75 - 1 _−_ 0.677 _−_ 19.8 20.2 2.2
Small near, large opp. 0 - 0.1 _−_ 0.539 _−_ 19.0 21.0 0.8
0.1 - 0.4 _−_ 0.645 _−_ 33.4 5.2 0.9
0.4 - 0.75 _−_ 0.686 _−_ 9.8 9.7 0.8
0.75 - 1 _−_ 0.763 _−_ 14.6 10.7 0.9


19


**6 Fill and Be Killed?**


Many market makers report feeling a burst of anxiety immediately upon realizing they have
received a fill. That psychological distress exists for a good reason: they are painfully aware
(through past loss-inflicting experiences) of the fact that it is much easier to get a fill accompanied
by a subsequent adverse price change than one without. After having examined the fundamental
attributes of maker orders in isolation in the preceding sections, we now illuminate the tension
between the two and the significant implications it holds for the use of maker orders broadly and
market-making strategies in particular.


**The connection between fill probability and returns for maker orders.** We have highlighted
two mechanical facts for maker orders in our experiment: (1) If the snapshot just after an order’s
terminal time (fill or cancel) shows a mid-price move that is zero or against the order, the order
must have filled; (2) If the snapshot shows a favorable mid-price movement the order must
have been canceled. That is, the fill probability of a maker order, conditioned on the immediate
mid-price change, is 0 when that change is positive, and 1 when it is zero or negative. We now
consider the relationship between an order’s fill probability and its subsequent return over longer
horizons.


Figure 11 demonstrates the relationship. The horizontal axis labels the on-paper returns of all
the orders in our sample (whether filled or canceled because the top price moved away); returns
are measured from the time of the order’s terminal state (fill-or-cancel) five seconds into the
future. The vertical axis shows the proportion of those orders that filled; that is, an estimate of the
fill probability given the subsequent return. The plot reveals a notable anti-correlation: orders
with negative subsequent five-second returns are highly likely to fill, whereas those with positive
returns are much less likely to fill. While this result alone does not guarantee an unconditional
expectation of a negative return—since the negative-return orders might represent only a small
portion of the entire sample, with their large negative returns being counterbalanced by small
positive returns from a larger number of orders—our empirical data does show a negative expected
return of approximately _−_ 0.8 bp, or _−_ 0.3 bp net of rebate.


Our observations suggest a dilemma: maker orders are either likely to fill but with a negative
short-term return (loss-making) or unlikely to fill and having a positive return (failing to realize a
profit). How does that dilemma affect the profitability of a basic market making strategy, often
cited in the literature?


**The PnL of a market making strategy.** A common misconception vitiating the HFT and market
making literature is the belief that market makers can simply post orders at the top bid and ask
prices to earn the spread plus rebates. In a number of such papers (see for instance Cartea [2016],
Avellaneda and Stoikov [2008]), it is commonly assumed that those maker orders fill randomly at
Poisson rates, with no impact on the subsequent mid-price evolution, which is often modeled as a
continuous diffusion process.


The cruel reality is that such market making strategies are a quick path to bankruptcy due to
negative price drift, which we now illustrate with a case study of the prototypical naive market
making strategy. We mirror the approach of DeLise [2024], who carried out a similar analysis of
the same strategy in US treasury markets, and it is interesting to note that the same results hold
in our completely different asset class. That strategy can be specified as follows:


20


Figure 11: Empirical relationship between fill probability and return measured five seconds from
post-time.


**Basic MM Strategy**


**Step 1:** Post a minimum-sized buy order at the top bid and a minimum-sized sell order at
the top ask.


**Step 2:** If the position differs from zero (because one of the two initial orders has filled),
post only on the side that will return the position to zero:


       - Keep the unfilled order open while it is posted at the touch.


       - Should the price change without the order being filled, so it no longer being
posted at the top price, cancel the order and place a new one at the new top
price.


**Step 3:** Once a fill is received that returns the inventory back to zero, return to Step 1.


One might imagine that by buying low and selling higher (by the spread), the strategy would
capture the spread and earn twice the maker rebate per pair of posts. However, this is only true
if both orders are filled without any change in the midprice. The strategy described above is
”naive” primarily because it lacks a sophisticated cancellation policy; orders are left in the book
even when a skilled trader might cancel them to avoid adverse selection. In reality, it is far more
common that, after one order has filled, an adverse midprice movement forces the cancellation
and reposting of the unfilled order at a worse price. We use our empirical data to assess the
impact of this fact and later illustrate how a simple, signal-based cancellation policy can mitigate,
but not eliminate, these losses.


In our overall experiment, we continuously quoted minimum-sized orders on both bid and ask
without inventory restrictions. The orders submitted by the basic market-making strategy are a


21


subset of the whole. We extract these and analyze the performance of the strategy. [13]


In Figure 12 we show the strategy’s cumulative return (including maker rebates) in basis points
over a period of approximately three days and seven hours. By the end of this period, the strategy
has lost almost 60%; in annualized units, the Sharpe ratio is a staggering _−_ 109.0. The average
holding time between opening and closing of a position is approximately 11 seconds.


Figure 13 illustrates the distribution of realized spreads (the price difference in basis points
between an opening fill that changes the position from 0 to _±_ 1, and the subsequent rebalancing
fill) with the frequency on a logarithmic scale. While the most frequent outcome for a round-trip
is indeed a modest positive return, the strategy is plagued by a high occurrence of larger losses,
and occasional catastrophic ones, which overwhelm the small gains.


The naive market making strategy is thus a recipe for poverty – heaven help the starry-eyed
novice traders, fresh from academia, who, seduced by maker rebates, attempt to implement this
strategy in practice.



Figure 12: PnL plot of the basic MM
strategy, net of fees.



Figure 13: Histogram of pre-fee returns
of roundtrip trades of the basic MM
strategy.



**Trading with the imbalance.** The naive strategy, which is prima facie appealing because it
receives the rebate and benefits from the spread, is in fact highly unprofitable. We now ask
whether the same is true for approaches which incorporate simple signals into decision-making,
posting orders more selectively based on a signal or canceling them when market conditions
change adversely.


A canonical example of a trading signal, widely accepted in the microstructure literature, is the
order book imbalance; indeed, we have referred to it repeatedly above. We investigate a set of
imbalance-based strategies commonly found in the literature (see for instance Cartea et al. [2018],
Cont et al. [2023]) which, while still relatively naive, also have prima facie appeal. We show that
this, too, is a false hope.


13Our results with minimum-sized orders are indicative of what one might expect with larger order sizes. One might
reasonably expect results to deteriorate with larger order sizes: the literature on market impact tells us that the market
impact of taker orders grows with their size. Hence, since the market impact of a taker order is the same as that of
adverse selection on the maker order on the other end of the trade, the subsequent expected return of a maker order
ought to decrease in its filled amount.


22


The strategies examined include:


 - **Imbalance-based maker strategy:** Post maker orders in the direction of the imbalance. This
strategy differs from the naive one by only submitting new orders when the imbalance is
favorable to the maker order (Imbalance threshold to post: magnitude _>_ 0.5).


 - **Imbalance-based maker strategy with cancellation:** Similar to the above, but with an
added rule to cancel posted orders if the imbalance shifts adversely to the order (Imbalance
threshold to post: magnitude _>_ 0.5; cancel threshold: 0.0).


 - **Imbalance-based taker strategy:** Trade in the direction of the imbalance using taker orders,
employing the same inventory-balancing approach as the maker strategies (Imbalance
threshold to submit a taker order: magnitude _>_ 0.5). [14]


The cumulative PnL of the maker strategies, net of fees, is shown in Figure 14, while Figure 15
includes the PnL of all strategies, including the taker one. For the taker strategy, we provide
two plots: one net of fees and the other before fees, to highlight the substantial impact of fees in
high-frequency trading. Table 2 summarizes key statistics for each strategy, including the number
of trades, mean and standard deviation of post-fee returns, and average holding time.


The results are stark. All imbalance-based strategies—whether maker or taker—perform poorly,
with negative returns across the board. The imbalance-based maker strategy with cancellations
only slightly mitigates losses compared with its counterpart without cancellations. The taker
strategy, which trades most frequently, suffers the worst performance, despite being highly
profitable before fees. These results underscore significant challenges of trading profitably using
simple public signals such as the imbalance:


  - The taker strategy is rendered unprofitable by the taker fee: while its pre-fee PnL is
impressive (around +1 bp per roundtrip), paying the taker fee on each leg of the roundtrip
erodes its profitability completely.


  - The maker strategies are primarily undermined by fill probability: they almost always miss
out on favorable price moves and are left with the smaller number of fills corresponding to
reversals (situations where the imbalance incorrectly predicts the next price change). The
cancellation rule only mitigates a subset of those adverse cases, namely the ones where
imbalance slowly changes adversely, rather than sudden adverse price moves caused by, e.g.,
large taker orders.


Thus, we conclude that it is challenging to overcome the taker fee with taker strategies, even
when the signal provides a robust pre-fee edge. Furthermore, maker strategies, despite not
paying taker fees, do not offer an easy way around that, given the interplay of queue position, fill
probability, and price drift. More sophisticated approaches based on other signals are therefore
necessary (if not necessarily sufficient). We describe one such in the remainder of this paper.


**Threading the needle.** In light of the grim evidence we have presented so far in this section, what
can market makers do to thread the needle between (1) having to absorb negative instantaneous
price drift necessary to obtain a fill and (2) experiencing positive price drift at slightly longer


14Latency is ignored here, potentially leading to an overstatement of results, see Albers et al. [2024].


23


Figure 14: PnL plots of the
maker strategies, net of fees.



Figure 15: PnL plots of maker
strategies (net of fees) and the
taker strategy (both net of fees
and before fees).



Table 2: Statistics of trading strategies, net of fees.


**Strategy** **Trades** **Mean Return** **Std Dev Return** **Avg Holding Time (sec)**


Imbalance taker 18927 _−_ 1.9621 2.1653 15.04
Naive maker 12623 _−_ 0.4307 2.6486 22.56
Imbalance maker w/o cancel 8851 _−_ 0.4705 2.8529 32.17
Imbalance maker w/ cancel 7333 _−_ 0.4921 3.1143 38.83


horizons (several seconds, say)? That is, how can they be filled by a taker order whose direction is
negatively correlated to that of subsequent orders within the markout time?


In Section 5, we saw that most configurations of the top-of-book queue sizes and near-side
queue position result in mainly negative outcomes; the exception is for front-of-queue orders
(QP _T ≈_ 0) in a large near-side queue where returns are notably positive when the opposite-side
queue is small, i.e. with a favorable order book imbalance. This suggests that trading in the
direction of the imbalance with a maker order near the front of the queue has a high fill probability
and is profitable if the order fills, but the fill becomes less likely, and the trade becomes increasingly
unprofitable as the queue position moves to the back of the queue. These points raise the question:
How can one achieve an early queue position in a large near-side queue with a favorable order
book imbalance, and thereby benefit from the well-documented positive correlation between
imbalance and returns?


Posting at the end of a large queue when the imbalance is favorable is not the answer, as the
order will be at the back of a large queue and subject to a poor expected return. Instead, the
order needs to be posted when the queue is still small but becomes large shortly thereafter. This


24


usually implies posting the order when the order book imbalance is unfavorable [15] (unless the
opposite-side queue also happens to be small), again with an _a-priori_ poor expected return.


That is, to position an order to trade profitably with the order book imbalance, two things need
to happen: one first needs to trade against an unfavorable imbalance, and then the imbalance has
to change favorably. On the basis of the information we have presented thus far, this is not, in
general, a profitable approach without further information in the form of a signal in favor of the
required sequence of events. We now discuss the construction of just such a signal.


**7 Reversals**


We noted in Section 4 that orders posted when the opposite-side queue is large, and the near-side
queue is small (implying an adverse imbalance) are associated high fill probabilities. While those
conditions usually imply a poor expected return, as established in Section 5, there is a subset
of cases where the initially adverse imbalance shifts favorably after post-time, i.e. when the
initial imbalances falsely predicts the next price change. These scenarios, which we term _reversals_,
represent instances where the typical negative correlation between fill probability and post-fill
returns can break down. While not a fully-fledged trading strategy, identifying such reversals
offers a potential resolution to the fundamental challenge facing maker orders. We present one
such model not as a definitive solution, but to illustrate the mechanics involved and demonstrate
that such opportunities can, in principle, be identified.


Figure 16 shows a confusion matrix of the imbalance as a predictor of the next price change.
Orders trading against the imbalance in the off-diagonal cases (reversals), where the imbalance is
a false predictor, have a high fill probability and yield a favorable subsequent return.


Figure 16: Confusion matrix: imbalance as a predictor of next price change. The off-diagonal cells
represent reversals: the top right (bottom left) cell is an opportunity to post a sell (buy) order with
high fill probability and positive price drift.


The challenge lies in distinguishing these off-diagonal cases (reversals) from the more common
diagonal cases where the next price change aligns with the imbalance-implied direction. The rest
of this section is dedicated to detailing our modeling strategy for predicting reversals, developing
a feature set, and evaluating the results.


15This excludes cases where a recent price change temporarily widens the spread to more than one tick, creating
an opportunity to post at the new top-of-book price—a scenario where being among the first to post is primarily a
technical challenge, involving latency optimization and the strategic use of special order types.


25


**7.1 Modelling Approach**


Let us now introduce an operational definition of the concept of a reversal, as introduced earlier,
and outline our approach for predicting such events.


First, we extract the subset of orders with a high estimated fill probability, specifically those
exceeding a chosen threshold of 80% at submission time [16] - our estimate is obtained by mapping
the initial bid and ask queue sizes onto the fill probability surface illustrated in Figure 4. This
subset of orders, denoted by O, forms our data set, comprising 182,381 orders spanning a one-week
period. We utilize the first half of this data set for training and the second half for testing. On
average, the opposite-side queue in this data set is 40% larger than the near-side queue, implying
that these orders are submitted with an initially adverse imbalance.


We then set up a classification task aimed at distinguishing orders in the set O that experience
the negative price drift implied by the high fill probability (adverse bid-ask skew) from those that
fill and experience positive price drift. That is, we define a binary label _φ_ : O _→{_ 0, 1 _}_ such that
_φ_ (o) = 1 for o _∈_ O if it satisfies the following criteria:


1. The order o fills, with some fill time _T_ = _T_ (o).


2. The order achieves a positive short-term return: let _T_ _[′]_ _≥_ _T_ denote the timestamp of the first
post-fill price change. The requirement is: ret _T_, _T′_ (o) := sgn(o) ( _p_ (o)/ _pT′ −_ 1) _·_ 10, 000 _>_ 0.
Here, _p_ (o) denotes the order’s limit price, while _pT′_ is the top bid price at time _T_ _[′]_ for a
buy order or the top ask price for a sell order, with the signed return accounting for order
direction using sgn(o) = 1 for buys and _−_ 1 for sells.


Orders o that do not satisfy the above criteria are labeled _φ_ (o) = 0. Here ret _T_, _T′_ (o) is the return
in basis points (bp) between the order’s limit price and the price next midprice _pT′_ at the next
midprice change after the order’s fill time.


To predict this output variable, we employ a logistic regression model using a set of features
(discussed in the next subsection) known at the time of order submission. The model is defined as


1
_P_ ( _φ_ (o) = 1) = ~~�~~ _n f_ ~~�~~,

1 + exp _α_ 0 + ∑ _i_ =1 _[α][i][x][i]_


where **x** = ( _x_ 1, _· · ·_, _xn f_ ) _∈_ **R** _[n][ f]_ is the feature vector containing _n f ∈_ **N** distinct features.

As a benchmark for our logistic regression model, we also utilize random forests. While these
models extend beyond linear approaches, they lack the interpretability of logistic regression.


**7.2 Features**


In this subsection, we outline the features we use to predict reversals. We expect this to be
inherently challenging due to the ease with which accurate predictions can be parlayed into
trading profits (cf. Unprofitability Principle, Section 1.1.2). Although the literature has not directly
addressed our specific problem, we can draw insights from related prediction tasks, such as
short-term return predictions. For instance, Ait-Sahalia et al. [2022] constructs non-overlapping
lookback windows to calculate various variables. Similarly, Cartea et al. [2023] develops a feature


16The results remain consistent across different threshold probabilities,


26


set designed to capture the current state of the LOB and recent LOB activity, which they use to
forecast market participants’ trading decisions.


Our approach encompasses four groups of features:


1. **Price Dynamics** : This group includes two measures of volatility over relatively long lookback
periods:


   - `stdev` ~~`1`~~ `00`, `stdev` `500` : Standard deviations of the 100 (500) most recent ten-second
returns, calculated from the last traded price, spanning approximately 16.66 minutes
and 83.33 minutes, respectively.


Additionally, we analyze price movements across multiple time scales—100 milliseconds,
1 second, 5 seconds, 30 seconds, and 5 minutes—denoted as `100ms`, `1s`, `5s`, `30s`, and `300s` .
For each scale, we consider three consecutive non-overlapping windows ( `w0`, `w1`, `w2` ) and
compute:


   - `amplitude` : The range between maximum and minimum prices within the window.


   - `ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` : Log return of the volume-weighted average price (VWAP) within the window
relative to the current top-of-book price.


2. **Trade Volume Patterns** : These features capture trading activity within the same windows:


   - `max` ~~`s`~~ `ize`, `avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` : Maximum and average trade sizes.


   - `buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount`, `sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` : Counts of buy and sell trades.


   - `total` ~~`b`~~ `uy`, `total` `sell` : Total volumes of buy and sell trades.


3. **Momentum** : This group reflects the persistence of price trends and trading activity, computed over the same lookback windows as the features in the preceding groups:


   - `ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` : Autocovariance of returns from consecutive trades.


   - `ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` : Cumulative log returns of trades.


   - `trade` ~~`i`~~ `ntensity` : Average time between consecutive trades.


4. **LOB State** : We assess the liquidity profile of the LOB:


   - `top` ~~`b`~~ `id` ~~`l`~~ `iq`, `top` ~~`a`~~ `sk` ~~`l`~~ `iq` : Liquidity at the top bid and ask levels.


   - `ob` `bid` ~~`h`~~ `alf`, `ob` `ask` ~~`h`~~ `alf` : Measures of bid- and ask-side liquidity, defined as the price
difference in basis points between the top bid (ask) price and the volume-weighted
average price to execute $500K on the bid (ask) side; lower values indicate high liquidity
near the touch, while larger values indicate an illiquid order book side.


   - `totb` ~~`m`~~ `ean` : Average top-of-book survival time in the past ten minutes.


   - `age` : Duration in seconds since the last top-of-book price change.


In total, our model uses 173 features, all of which are observable at the time of order submission,
thus ensuring that the model’s predictions are actionable from a trading standpoint: traders can
compute the model’s prediction in real-time and decide whether to proceed with posting the
order or wait for a more opportune moment.


27


Furthermore, our features are pre-processed such that the model need not differentiate between
the direction of the order (buy or sell). Concretely this means that instead of using ”buy” and
”sell” we use ”same-direction” and ”opposite-direction”, or instead of ”bid” and ”ask” we use
”near-side” and ”opposite-side”, and for some other features such as returns it means multiplying
them by a sign based on the direction of the order. All of this allows the model to treat buys and
sells equivalently during training and prediction.


While there is some correlation among these features—such as the high correlation between
volatility and trading volumes—they are intentionally designed to minimize cross-correlation. This
is achieved by utilizing consecutive non-overlapping lookback windows for each fixed time scale.
When different time scales are considered, they differ by approximately an order of magnitude,
ensuring that the overlap between lookback windows across these scales is small. We have thus
carefully considered cross-correlations in the construction of our feature set to ensure that even the
largest values remain sufficiently low. This allows us to train our models—logistic regression and
random forest—directly on the original feature set without the need for additional pre-processing
or dimensionality reduction, steps that could reduce the explainability of the results.


**7.3 Results**


In the realm of trading, traditional metrics for evaluating classification models, such as prediction
accuracy, often fall short of capturing the true metric of interest: economic significance or trading
profit.


Consider, for instance, that in our data set, only about 15% of orders are reversals. A model
could achieve an ostensibly high prediction accuracy of 85% simply by always predicting a
non-reversal. However, such a model would never trigger any trading activity, thereby failing to
generate any profit or trading edge.


To further illustrate that the link between prediction accuracy and economic significance is
tenuous, suppose the model’s out-of-sample predictions of reversals are mostly false positives.
Even in that case, the model might still offer economic value: the post-fill returns of orders
placed based on these predictions could still be substantially better than the post-fill returns of
randomly placed orders, thus potentially providing traders with a valuable tool for improving
the performance of their fills, a phenomenon that our subsequent analysis reveals in our model’s
results.


We evaluate the economic significance of our model’s predictions via a twofold approach,
involving the assessment of two canonical trading strategies informed by our model’s predictions:


1. **Undirectional Strategy** : This strategy involves placing orders only when the model predicts
a reversal with a probability exceeding a threshold _p_ . For various values of _p_, we examine
the fill probability of these orders and their subsequent returns. We impose no inventory
constraints, allowing for arbitrary accumulation of inventory in either direction. Negative
returns are interpreted as opportunity costs.


2. **Balanced-Inventory Strategy** : This strategy operates similarly to the basic MM strategy
described in Section 6, but it restricts order submissions to situations where the model
(logistic regression or random forest) predicts a reversal probability exceeding a threshold
_p ∈_ [0, 1]. Specifically, it posts a buy order at the top bid price if a (downward) reversal
is predicted with probability _> p_, and a sell order at the top ask price if an (upward)


28


reversal is predicted with probability _> p_ . If the inventory is non-zero (i.e., long or short
one unit), the strategy only posts on the side that returns the position to zero, provided a
reversal is predicted with probability _> p_ . Since this strategy maintains a balanced inventory
(similar to the basic MM strategy), we can meaningfully compute its realized PnL (unlike
the Undirectional Strategy).


**Undirectional Strategy Results.** Table 3 provides a comparative overview of the Undirectional
Strategy results derived from both the logistic regression and random forest models, detailing
the number of orders placed per day during the test period, the empirical fill probability of
these orders, the average post-fill return over a 5-second horizon (measured from fill time), and
the standard deviation of those returns. The results are similar across different return horizons,
although larger horizons introduce more noise due to increased standard deviation.


For both logistic regression and random forest models, the number of orders decreases as the
threshold for predicted reversal probability increases, as one would expect. Yet, the decrease in
number of reversal predictions drops quite steeply with an increase in the probability threshold,
likely due to the class imbalance in the training data, where reversals are relatively rare. The fill
probability remains largely consistently high across varying thresholds.


Most importantly, the post-fill performance significantly improves as the threshold increases.
This indicates that traders can capture economic benefit by placing orders only when there is a
substantial predicted probability of a reversal. For the logistic regression model, that economic
benefit becomes significant at a reversal probability of approximately 24-26%, where the post-fill
returns are statistically significantly about 0.1-0.2 basis points (bp) better than those of randomly
placed orders.


Table 3: Comparison of Undrectional Strategy across different thresholds.

|Threshold Logistic Regression Random Forest<br># Orders / Day Fill Prob Return (5s) Stdev p-value # Orders / Day Fill Prob Return (5s) Stdev p-value|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|0.00<br>0.02<br>0.04<br>0.06<br>0.08<br>0.10<br>0.12<br>0.14<br>0.16<br>0.18<br>0.20<br>0.22<br>0.24<br>0.26<br>0.28<br>0.30<br>0.32<br>0.34<br>0.36<br>0.38<br>0.40<br>0.42<br>0.44<br>0.46<br>0.48<br>0.50|21689<br>0.8824<br>_−_0.74<br>1.55<br>0.5000<br>19438<br>0.8809<br>_−_0.71<br>1.62<br>0.0003<br>16596<br>0.8791<br>_−_0.72<br>1.72<br>0.0165<br>13939<br>0.8773<br>_−_0.71<br>1.82<br>0.0018<br>11674<br>0.8767<br>_−_0.72<br>1.92<br>0.0397<br>9566<br>0.8770<br>_−_0.72<br>2.05<br>0.0607<br>7723<br>0.8778<br>_−_0.70<br>2.17<br>0.0040<br>5979<br>0.8829<br>_−_0.70<br>2.28<br>0.0189<br>4441<br>0.8855<br>_−_0.69<br>2.43<br>0.0083<br>3158<br>0.8880<br>_−_0.69<br>2.57<br>0.0334<br>2104<br>0.8887<br>_−_0.68<br>2.77<br>0.0496<br>1365<br>0.8814<br>_−_0.68<br>3.00<br>0.0903<br>882<br>0.8673<br>_−_0.62<br>3.24<br>0.0278<br>577<br>0.8612<br>_−_0.60<br>3.55<br>0.0432<br>349<br>0.8559<br>_−_0.45<br>3.86<br>0.0055<br>233<br>0.8545<br>_−_0.32<br>3.78<br>0.0011<br>162<br>0.8284<br>_−_0.40<br>3.78<br>0.0187<br>113<br>0.8128<br>_−_0.27<br>3.82<br>0.0093<br>69<br>0.7913<br>+0.27<br>3.49<br>0.0000<br>45<br>0.7733<br>+1.34<br>3.57<br>0.0000<br>33<br>0.7818<br>+2.11<br>3.75<br>0.0000<br>24<br>0.8250<br>+2.65<br>3.69<br>0.0000<br>19<br>0.8125<br>+2.66<br>3.72<br>0.0000<br>13<br>0.7826<br>+3.45<br>3.88<br>0.0000<br>11<br>0.8421<br>+3.49<br>4.23<br>0.0000<br>9<br>0.8750<br>+3.02<br>1.92<br>0.0000|21657<br>0.8824<br>_−_0.74<br>1.55<br>0.5000<br>21402<br>0.8825<br>_−_0.71<br>1.56<br>0.0001<br>20780<br>0.8813<br>_−_0.67<br>1.57<br>0.0000<br>19733<br>0.8807<br>_−_0.67<br>1.58<br>0.0000<br>18375<br>0.8794<br>_−_0.68<br>1.61<br>0.0000<br>16633<br>0.8785<br>_−_0.68<br>1.66<br>0.0000<br>14790<br>0.8773<br>_−_0.69<br>1.71<br>0.0000<br>12848<br>0.8761<br>_−_0.71<br>1.77<br>0.0008<br>11006<br>0.8743<br>_−_0.71<br>1.83<br>0.0034<br>9304<br>0.8732<br>_−_0.69<br>1.90<br>0.0000<br>7732<br>0.8690<br>_−_0.70<br>1.96<br>0.0017<br>6265<br>0.8687<br>_−_0.69<br>2.04<br>0.0006<br>5034<br>0.8642<br>_−_0.68<br>2.13<br>0.0003<br>3965<br>0.8589<br>_−_0.68<br>2.18<br>0.0018<br>3037<br>0.8572<br>_−_0.67<br>2.27<br>0.0010<br>2271<br>0.8523<br>_−_0.63<br>2.41<br>0.0000<br>1675<br>0.8548<br>_−_0.57<br>2.52<br>0.0000<br>1219<br>0.8527<br>_−_0.50<br>2.59<br>0.0000<br>837<br>0.8507<br>_−_0.41<br>2.61<br>0.0000<br>582<br>0.8521<br>_−_0.32<br>2.80<br>0.0000<br>375<br>0.8465<br>_−_0.33<br>2.99<br>0.0000<br>248<br>0.8537<br>_−_0.30<br>3.12<br>0.0000<br>159<br>0.8441<br>_−_0.13<br>3.54<br>0.0000<br>96<br>0.8113<br>+0.05<br>2.88<br>0.0000<br>52<br>0.8161<br>+0.76<br>3.02<br>0.0000<br>23<br>0.7692<br>+1.68<br>3.35<br>0.0000|



29


How can we ascertain if the improvements in post-fill returns shown in Table 3 genuinely
surpass the performance of randomly placed orders, considering the possibility that these results
might be mere coincidences? This can be addressed through a two-sample t-test, which compares
the average returns of two groups: the strategy for a given model and threshold versus random
orders. For instance, at the 0.30 reversal probability threshold for the Logistic Regression model,
where the average post-fill return is _−_ 0.32, we test the null hypothesis that there is no difference
between the returns of this trading strategy and random orders. The calculated t-statistic is
3.062602 with a p-value of 0.0011, allowing us to reject the null hypothesis and conclude that the
observed return improvement is statistically significant at the 5% level. The table also reports
p-values for all reversal probability thresholds, providing a view of the statistical significance
across different levels.


**Balanced-Inventory Strategy Results.** Let us now examine Table 4, which presents the performance of the Balanced Inventory strategy based on a model and a specified reversal probability
threshold. At a threshold of 0, the strategy operates without restrictions, and is equivalent to
the naive market-making strategy discussed in Section 6. As the threshold increases, the strategy restricts order submissions to scenarios where the model predicts a reversal with a certain
probability, resulting in fewer orders being posted.


The returns are calculated as realized roundtrip returns, defined as the price difference (in bp)
between the limit prices of two orders: the initial order that accumulates inventory (changing it
from 0 to _±_ 1) and the subsequent order that returns the inventory to 0. [17] Each leg of the roundtrip
earns a maker rebate of 0.5 bp, thus we add 1 bp to each realized roundtrip return. We also
present the standard deviations of these returns, the average holding time (the duration between
an inventory-acquiring trade and its subsequent hedge), and the annualized Sharpe ratio of the
strategy. The Sharpe ratio is calculated based on hourly periods, given that our test period spans
approximately 3.5 trading days.


We observe a significant decline in the number of fills as the reversal probability threshold
increases, implying longer intervals between consecutive trades in a roundtrip, i.e., increased
holding time. This makes interpretation challenging for higher thresholds, so we only display
results where the holding time is less than 10 minutes (600 seconds).


The improvement in realized roundtrip PnL compared with the naive strategy is striking. The
naive strategy incurs an average loss of 0.44 basis points per roundtrip (net of rebates), occurring
at a high frequency, which explains its poor Sharpe ratio. At a higher threshold, such as 0.24 for
the Logistic Regression model, the number of roundtrips remains relatively large (327 per day),
and the average return (0.71) constitutes a significant improvement over the naive strategy. A
hypothesis test similar to the one conducted earlier confirms that this difference is statistically
significant and unlikely to be due to chance, despite the large standard deviation of returns. The
cumulative PnL plot and return histogram for this threshold are shown in Figures 17 and 18,
respectively, illustrating the strategy’s improved performance and the distribution of realized
returns; these are the analogues of the plots for the naive MM strategy shown in Figures 12
and 13. The Sharpe ratio improves from _−_ 109 for the naive strategy to 11.97 for the Logistic
Regression-based strategy at the 0.24 threshold, demonstrating unequivocally that our model
yields substantial economic benefit. It is important to note that the impressive Sharpe ratio is


17Returns are signed such that a positive return indicates a profit, while a negative return indicates a loss.


30


unlikely to persist with larger-than-minimum-sized orders, and that our calculations assume the
best possible maker rebate (0.5 bp). Even minor changes to these assumptions could result in a
significantly lower Sharpe ratio, yet it remains far superior to that of the naive strategy.


Table 4: Comparison of Balanced-Inventory Strategy across different thresholds.


|Threshold Logistic Regression Random Forest<br># Fills / Day Avg Ret Stdev Holding Sharpe p-value # Fills / Day Avg Ret Stdev Holding Sharpe p-value|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|0.00<br>0.02<br>0.04<br>0.06<br>0.08<br>0.10<br>0.12<br>0.14<br>0.16<br>0.18<br>0.20<br>0.22<br>0.24<br>0.26<br>0.28<br>0.30<br>0.32<br>0.34<br>0.36|15380<br>_−_0.44<br>2.73<br>11.39<br>_−_109.00<br>0.5000<br>14266<br>_−_0.45<br>2.81<br>12.28<br>_−_99.98<br>0.6369<br>12650<br>_−_0.46<br>2.97<br>13.85<br>_−_92.82<br>0.8177<br>10972<br>_−_0.45<br>3.20<br>15.97<br>_−_74.99<br>0.6278<br>9364<br>_−_0.44<br>3.46<br>18.71<br>_−_67.29<br>0.5270<br>7780<br>_−_0.44<br>3.77<br>22.52<br>_−_56.42<br>0.5230<br>6332<br>_−_0.44<br>4.24<br>27.67<br>_−_45.39<br>0.5187<br>4956<br>_−_0.43<br>4.72<br>35.35<br>_−_37.41<br>0.4469<br>3598<br>_−_0.43<br>5.74<br>48.68<br>_−_29.20<br>0.4867<br>2494<br>_−_0.40<br>6.72<br>70.24<br>_−_23.20<br>0.3908<br>1644<br>_−_0.39<br>8.10<br>106.53<br>_−_21.26<br>0.3975<br>1060<br>_−_0.22<br>10.63<br>165.32<br>_−_15.88<br>0.2504<br>654<br>+0.71<br>13.69<br>267.66<br>+11.97<br>0.0160<br>426<br>+1.21<br>18.10<br>409.26<br>+26.12<br>0.0303<br>270<br>+0.90<br>22.52<br>595.97<br>+12.32<br>0.1650<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-|15380<br>_−_0.44<br>2.73<br>11.39<br>_−_109.00<br>0.5000<br>15066<br>_−_0.43<br>2.68<br>12.54<br>_−_106.78<br>0.3933<br>14626<br>_−_0.43<br>2.71<br>12.92<br>_−_105.31<br>0.4158<br>13868<br>_−_0.44<br>2.77<br>13.62<br>_−_99.97<br>0.5441<br>12856<br>_−_0.45<br>2.87<br>14.69<br>_−_98.61<br>0.6727<br>11700<br>_−_0.44<br>2.97<br>16.14<br>_−_96.94<br>0.5340<br>10354<br>_−_0.44<br>3.17<br>18.24<br>_−_91.83<br>0.5305<br>8918<br>_−_0.45<br>3.42<br>21.18<br>_−_75.09<br>0.5897<br>7630<br>_−_0.41<br>3.68<br>24.75<br>_−_63.28<br>0.2555<br>6374<br>_−_0.41<br>4.07<br>29.63<br>_−_55.68<br>0.3011<br>5224<br>_−_0.36<br>4.54<br>36.15<br>_−_42.96<br>0.1011<br>4146<br>_−_0.39<br>5.17<br>45.54<br>_−_42.23<br>0.2794<br>3222<br>_−_0.39<br>5.90<br>58.61<br>_−_34.28<br>0.3252<br>2460<br>_−_0.32<br>6.80<br>76.73<br>_−_24.85<br>0.1948<br>1826<br>_−_0.21<br>7.82<br>103.27<br>_−_18.78<br>0.1076<br>1330<br>+0.03<br>8.90<br>141.75<br>+1.30<br>0.0287<br>972<br>+0.31<br>9.65<br>194.22<br>+12.08<br>0.0078<br>692<br>+0.59<br>12.20<br>272.14<br>+13.48<br>0.0133<br>454<br>+0.02<br>14.45<br>414.03<br>+0.30<br>0.2501|



Figure 17: PnL plot of the model-based
MM strategy, net of fees.


**7.4 Feature Importance**



Figure 18: Histogram of pre-fee returns
of roundtrip trades of the model-based
MM strategy.



The preceding subsection has shown that our reversal models have economically significant
predictive power. Now, this final subsection considers interpretations of their parameters: What
are the main economic factors driving the likelihood of reversals? A convenient starting point
to answering that question is an analysis of the coefficients of our logistic regression model. To
simplify our analysis, we focus on the case of a buy maker order, where a reversal occurs when a
price-negative imbalance (often preceded by a price decline) is followed by a price increase; the
term reversal is subsequently used only in the sense of such a buy-reversal. One just needs to


31


replace the words “bid” and “buy” with “ask” and “sell” in the sentences and plots below and
the result would be a description from the perspective of a sell order.


**Coefficient Analysis.** The four bar plots in Figure 19 illustrate the model’s coefficients across the
four feature groups described in Section 7.2, displaying only those with absolute values larger than
0.05 to keep the visualization concise; the full set of coefficients can be found in the Appendix B.
We note that all variables are standardized prior to estimation, allowing for a comparison of
coefficients across features. We make a range of observations regarding those coefficients and
possible economic interpretations, acknowledging that any such interpretations involve some
degree of speculation, as they involve teasing apart the effect of many correlated influences:


  - First, consider the momentum features in Figure 19b. Notably, the features `ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `*`
(where * denotes _{_ 0, 1, 2 _}_ ) have large negative coefficients, suggesting that reversals are more
likely when the last trade price oscillates (even if it is just between the top bid and top ask
prices) rather than trend consistently in one direction across each of the last three 5-second
windows, collectively amounting to the last 15 seconds. Next, notice that the coefficient on
`ret` `sum` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` is significantly positive, implying that a recent sharp price drop (in the
last 100ms) implies a higher probability of a reversal. Combining these insights, we arrive
at the conclusion that a sudden price drop following a balanced up/down price action, is
associated with a higher probability for a reversal. This is economically sensible, as the
new top bid price is likely to lack liquidity immediately following the price drop, and the
absence of persistent downward pressure (as one would see from a high autocovariance)
suggests that the trade causing the sudden price drop is more likely to be an isolated event
rather than part of a series of orders driving the price downward in a sustained manner.


  - The coefficients `avg` `time` ~~`t`~~ `r` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` and `avg` ~~`t`~~ `ime` ~~`t`~~ `r` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w1`, are noticeably negative, indicating that a longer average time between trades over the past minute correlates with
a significantly reduced likelihood of a reversal. This aligns with the economic intuition
that reversals occur more frequently during periods of heightened market activity, as the
frequency at which order book queues fluctuate is increased with order survival times lower
than during quiet times. Supporting this conclusion, the variable `totb` `mean` also has a
significantly negative coefficient, suggesting that the model predicts a higher probability of
reversal when recent top-of-book survival times are short. Additionally, `stdev` ~~`5`~~ `00` shows a
marginally positive coefficient, further indicating that increased volatility (which is correlated with heightened market activity and decreased top-of-book survival times) slightly
raises the probability of a reversal.


  - The model penalizes large pre-existing liquidity on the bid side, as shown by the negative
coefficients for `ob` `bid` ~~`l`~~ `iq` in Figure 19d. This makes sense, as high liquidity at the touch
reduces the likelihood of a fill, which was one of the requirements in our definition of a
reversal. Conversely, consider the explanatory variable `ob` ~~`b`~~ `id` ~~`h`~~ `alf` which is small (close to
zero) if there is much liquidity at or near the touch, and large if the bid-side is very illiquid
for various levels from the top bid price down: it has a marginally negative coefficient,
suggesting that when the bid-side is illiquid for several book levels from the top bid
downward, the model yields a slightly lower predicted probability of a reversal. Combining
those two observations, we arrive at the conclusion that the model prefers scenarios of an


32


illiquid top bid price but lots of liquidity at deeper order book levels close to the top bid
price. This again makes economic sense: if other makers are willing to post significant
liquidity only slightly deeper in the book than the top bid price, then it is likely not much
worse to post an order at the top bid as well, given that this price is only slightly worse than
those deeper levels.


  - In the trade volume patterns group (Figure 19a), the model assigns moderately positive
coefficients to the three features `sell` `count` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `*` (where * denotes _{_ 0,1,2 _}_ ) which quantify
the number of filled sell maker orders in the past 15 seconds. Conversely, the significantly
negative coefficient for `sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `0` suggests a reduced reversal probability in situations where sell activity was prevalent in the slightly more distant past. This pattern implies
recent sell pressure with a preceding period characterized by mostly buying activity.


  - The model’s negative coefficients for the `total` ~~`s`~~ `ell` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `*` (where * denotes _{_ 0,1,2 _}_ ) features
reveal that the reversal probability is higher if the aforementioned high count of sell trades
during the same lookback windows collectively consume only little volume, suggesting they
largely take small maker orders. This seems to suggest that large taker volume may be
indicative of a further price drop.


  - The positive coefficient for `buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` `5s` `w0` (and slightly negative ones for the preceding
two lookback windows) implies that recent buy activity marginally increases the likelihood
of a reversal, suggesting a shift from selling to buying and hinting at a potential reversal
(despite there still being a price-negative imbalance).


Synthesizing our observations above, it appears that our model’s ideal criteria for a reversal are
as follows:


1. **Elevated Volatility:** The market should exhibit certain characteristics associated with heightened volatility: high trade-arrival intensity and short top-of-book survival times. In these
conditions, reversals are more frequent and the time between order submission and its
execution or cancellation is likely to be low (making it less likely for economic conditions to
change during the order’s lifetime).


2. **Price Movement Patterns:** In the recent past (15 seconds), the last trade returns should
lack a strong autocorrelated trend, indicating that the price oscillates rather than trending
strongly in one direction. Following such price action, there is a sudden drop in the top bid
price (within the last 100 milliseconds) to a new local minimum, where there is minimal
pre-existing liquidity.


3. **Trade Volume Dynamics:** Over the past 15 seconds, there should be a large number of
sell trades following a period of little selling activity; however, those sell trades should
not amount to much total volume, i.e. it was executed predominantly against small maker
orders. Accompanying this, there should be a significant price decline over the same period,
and a recent emergence of buy trades in the past 5 seconds after a period of little or no
buying activity.


The price drop to a new local minimum with little existing liquidity suggests that the order has a
high probability of filling, while the remaining criteria can be viewed as mitigating the risk of


33


further price decline, despite a price-negative imbalance, thereby reducing the likelihood of a
negative short-term price drift post-fill.


**Permutation Importance.** To complement our analysis of the logistic regression coefficients,
we conducted a permutation importance analysis on the random forest model. Permutation
importance is a model-agnostic approach to assess the significance of each feature by randomly
permuting its values and observing the impact on model performance. A substantial decrease in
accuracy indicates a feature’s importance.


The six most important features, as determined by the permutation importance analysis
(with scores normalized by the maximum importance), are `ret` `autocorr` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w0` (1.00),
`velocity` ~~`t`~~ `r` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` (0.93), `ob` ~~`b`~~ `id` `liq` (0.67), `totb` ~~`m`~~ `ean` (0.57), `sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` (0.27), and
`amplitude` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` (0.12). The permutation importance drops off rather steeply beyond these
six features, suggesting that they play a more minor role in the model’s performance. Yet, the
perspective offered by the permutation importance analysis is consistent with our interpretations
of the coefficients from the logistic regression model:


  - The high importance score of the top feature, `ret` `autocov` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0`, stresses the importance of recent price autocovariance as an explanatory variable. This corroborates the finding
that negative autocovariance of recent returns (implying price oscillations up and down) are
an important precursor of reversals, which we previously inferred from logistic regression’s
large negative coefficients for `ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `*`, _∗_ = 0, 1, 2.


  - The high (normalized) importance score of 0.93 for the feature `velocity` ~~`t`~~ `r` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` echoes
the logistic regression’s findings where a short average time between consecutive trades was
found to be strongly positively correlated with a higher likelihood of a reversal.


  - The feature `ob` ~~`b`~~ `id` ~~`l`~~ `iq`, with an importance score of 0.67, corroborates our earlier conclusion
based on the coefficient analysis that large pre-existing liquidity at the bid side results
in a significantly reduced reversal probability, which can be explained by the reduced fill
probability associated with an already-large queue at post-time, coupled with the fact that
our definition of a reversal included a requirement that the order be filled.


  - Furthermore, `totb` `mean` also appears prominently in both analyses, with a permutation
importance score of 0.57 and a large negative coefficient, reinforcing the notion that low
survival times of top-of-book prices are conducive to reversals.


  - The logistic regression model applied a large negative coefficient to the feature `sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0`,
whose significance in predicting reversals is further corroborated by its high (normalized)
permutation importance score of 0.27 in the random forest model.


  - Finally, the moderately high permutation importance score for `amplitude` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w0` is
consistent with its significantly positive coefficient in the logistic regression model, reflecting
our earlier conclusion that reversals are more likely to occur following a very recent price
drop.


A concluding afterword notes that all of the explanatory variables with a high permutation
score for the random forest model also exhibit a large (in absolute terms) coefficient in our logistic


34


regression model; and conversely, there is no feature with a very large coefficient that does not
emerge as one with a high permutation importance score. Thus, we conclude that, while the
permutation importance analysis does not allow us to paint as detailed a picture as the coefficient
analysis (since it only tells us how important a feature is without telling us how it influences the
model’s predictions), its results are consistent with our earlier findings.


(a) Trade volume patterns (b) Momentum features


(c) Order book features (d) Price dynamics


Figure 19: Coefficients of the logistic regression model grouped by feature categories, illustrating
the relative importance and direction of each feature’s impact on the likelihood of reversals. Only
coefficients with absolute values greater than 0.05 are displayed.


**8 Conclusion**


Through granular empirical analysis, we have described the effect of (i) basic order book mechanics
and (ii) the strong persistence of price changes from the immediate to short timescales, revealing
interactions between returns, queue sizes, and orders’ queue positions. These interactions lead
to negative correlation between an order’s fill probability and its post-fill returns, creating a


35


fundamental challenge in profitable maker trading at the touch. The practical consequences in
high-frequency trading are immense, rendering several natural (and commonly-cited) trading
strategies highly unprofitable in practice.


To overcome these challenges, a key to successful market making is to avoid being adversely
selected. While this can in principle be achieved ”defensively” by cancelling orders when adverse
selection becomes likely (itself a complex task), our work explores a more proactive strategy:
developing counter-signals to the order book imbalance. Such signals allow for the submission
of orders during an apparently adverse imbalance to benefit from an early queue position when
conditions shift favorably. To show that this can be done, we develop such a signal and demonstrate
its efficacy: it significantly outperforms benchmarks and gives an indication of the type of features
that might be helpful in predicting when the order book imbalance falsely predicts the next price
change; the strategy is slightly profitable with min-sized orders and assuming low fees, albeit
those profits are likely not scalable; however, we hope that our approach can give practitioners
a pointer on what direction to focus their efforts. The specific model we present is one of many
possible constructions, intended to demonstrate a proof-of-concept rather than to serve as an
optimized, production-ready strategy.


Our model’s performance, which required a complex feature set to achieve even modest (and
likely non-scalable) profits, affirms the ”Unprofitability Principle” we informally introduced earlier
as: forecasting ability and ease of exploitation are anti-correlated. This principle helps explain why
so many academic studies struggle to produce practically viable results—a tendency exemplified
by a research focus on fill probabilities alone, which, by ignoring their negative correlation with
returns, risks optimizing for a pyrrhic victory. This flawed approach is symptomatic of two
broader challenges that often bedevil academic research: (i) a failure to examine the problem at a
sufficiently granular level to uncover the influence of order book mechanics on outcomes, and (ii)
a lack of access to data that provides the full picture, as even L3 data show only what happened,
not what did not happen (such as failed cancellations), which can be equally important. By
conducting live trading experiments, we address both these challenges, leveraging a methodology
that provides insights difficult to attain with other approaches.


Ultimately, like all liquid LOB markets, the crypto exchange we used is highly competitive. The
pervasive barrier to profitability for HFT (maker or taker) is partly a consequence of the mechanics
of an LOB market, partly a consequence of competition between traders, and pervasively a
consequence of the persistent wealth extraction via exchange fees.


**Funding**


AYS acknowledges support from NSERC Discovery Grant RGPIN-2024-05996.


**Data Availability**


The data that support the findings of this study were collected by the authors and are not publicly
available.


**Declaration of Competing Interests**


The authors declare no competing financial or personal interests in relation to the work described.


36


**References**


Y. Ait-Sahalia and M. Saglam. High frequency traders: Taking advantage of speed. _SSRN Electronic_
_Journal_, 2013. ISSN 1556-5068. doi: 10.2139/ssrn.2331613. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2331613)`
`[ssrn.2331613](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2331613)` .


Y. Ait-Sahalia, J. Fan, L. Xue, and Y. Zhou. _How and When are High-Frequency Stock Returns_
_Predictable?_ Aug. 2022. doi: 10.3386/w30366. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.3386/w30366](http://dx.doi.org/10.3386/w30366)` .


J. Albers, M. Cucuringu, S. Howison, and A. Y. Shestopaloff. The good, the bad, and latency:
Exploratory trading on bybit and binance. _SSRN Electronic Journal_, 2024. ISSN 1556-5068. doi:
10.2139/ssrn.4677989. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4677989](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4677989)` .


A. Arroyo,´ ´A. Cartea, F. Moreno-Pino, and S. Zohren. Deep attentive survival analysis in limit
order books: Estimating fill probabilities with convolutional-transformers. _SSRN Electronic_
_Journal_, 2023. ISSN 1556-5068. doi: 10.2139/ssrn.4432087. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432087)`
`[ssrn.4432087](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432087)` .


M. Avellaneda and S. Stoikov. High-frequency trading in a limit order book. _Quantitative_
_Finance_, 8(3):217a224, Apr. 2008. ISSN 1469-7696. doi: 10.1080/14697680701381228. URLˆ
`[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14697680701381228](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14697680701381228)` .


J. Brogaard, T. Hendershott, and R. Riordan. High-frequency trading and price discovery. _The_
_Review of Financial Studies_, 27(8):2267–2306, 06 2014. ISSN 0893-9454. doi: 10.1093/rfs/hhu032.
URL `[https://doi.org/10.1093/rfs/hhu032](https://doi.org/10.1093/rfs/hhu032)` .


A. Cartea. Algorithmic and high frequency trading.´ _Quantitative Finance_, 16(8):1175a1176, Mar.ˆ
2016. ISSN 1469-7696. doi: 10.1080/14697688.2016.1143619. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14697688.2016.1143619)`
`[1080/14697688.2016.1143619](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14697688.2016.1143619)` .


A. Cartea and L. S´ anchez-Betancourt. Optimal execution with stochastic delay.´ _Finance and_
_Stochastics_, 27(1):1–47, Jan 2023. ISSN 1432-1122. doi: 10.1007/s00780-022-00491-w. URL
`[https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s00780-022-00491-w.pdf](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s00780-022-00491-w.pdf)` .


A. Cartea, R. Donnelly, and S. Jaimungal. Enhancing trading strategies with order book signals.´
_Applied Mathematical Finance_, 25(1):135, Jan. 2018. ISSN 1466-4313. doi: 10.1080/1350486x.2018.
1434009. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1350486X.2018.1434009](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1350486X.2018.1434009)` .


A. Cartea, S. Jaimungal, and L. S´ anchez-Betancourt. Latency and liquidity risk.´ _International_
_Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance_, 24(06n07):2150035, 2021.


A. Cartea, S. N. Cohen, R. Graumans, S. Labyad, L. S´ anchez-Betancourt, and L. van Veldhuijzen.´
Statistical predictions of trading strategies in electronic markets. _SSRN Electronic Journal_,
2023. ISSN 1556-5068. doi: 10.2139/ssrn.4442770. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4442770)`
`[4442770](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4442770)` .


R. Cont, M. Cucuringu, and C. Zhang. Cross-impact of order flow imbalance in equity markets.
_Quantitative Finance_, 23(10):1373a1393, Aug. 2023. ISSN 1469-7696. doi: 10.1080/14697688.ˆ
2023.2236159. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14697688.2023.2236159](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14697688.2023.2236159)` .


37


T. DeLise. The negative drift of a limit order fill. 07 2024. URL `[https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.16527.pdf)`
`[16527.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.16527.pdf)` .


R. Donnelly and L. Gan. Optimal decisions in a time priority queue. _Applied Mathematical_
_Finance_, 25(2):107a147, Mar. 2018. ISSN 1466-4313. doi: 10.1080/1350486x.2018.1506257. URLˆ
`[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1350486X.2018.1506257](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1350486X.2018.1506257)` .


T. Fabre and V. Ragel. Tackling the problem of state dependent execution probability: Empirical
evidence and order placement. _SSRN Electronic Journal_, 2023. ISSN 1556-5068. doi: 10.2139/
ssrn.4509063. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4509063](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4509063)` .


T. Foucault, A. Roell, and P. Sand¨ as. Market making with costly monitoring: An analysis of the˚
soes controversy. _The Review of Financial Studies_, 16(2):345–384, 2003. ISSN 08939454, 14657368.
URL `[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1262679](http://www.jstor.org/stable/1262679)` .


T. Foucault, J. Hombert, and I. Rosu. News trading and speed. _The Journal of Finance_, 71(1):335–382,
2016a. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/jofi.12302. URL `[https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jofi.12302)`
`[doi/abs/10.1111/jofi.12302](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jofi.12302)` .


T. Foucault, R. Kozhan, and W. W. Tham. Toxic arbitrage. _The Review of Financial Studies_, 30(4):
1053–1094, 12 2016b. ISSN 0893-9454. doi: 10.1093/rfs/hhw103. URL `[https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1093/rfs/hhw103)`
`[1093/rfs/hhw103](https://doi.org/10.1093/rfs/hhw103)` .


T. Fushimi and C. G. Rojas. Optimal high-frequency market making. 2018. URL `[https://api.](https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:197858936)`
`[semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:197858936](https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:197858936)` .


M. D. Gould and J. Bonart. Queue imbalance as a one-tick-ahead price predictor in a limit order
book. 12 2015. URL `[https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.03492.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.03492.pdf)` .


M. D. Gould, M. A. Porter, S. Williams, M. McDonald, D. J. Fenn, and S. D. Howison. Limit order
books. 12 2010. URL `[https://arxiv.org/pdf/1012.0349.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1012.0349.pdf)` .


C.-A. Lehalle and O. Mounjid. Limit order strategic placement with adverse selection risk and the
role of latency. 10 2016. URL `[https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.00261.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.00261.pdf)` .


A. Lipton, U. Pesavento, and M. G. Sotiropoulos. Trade arrival dynamics and quote imbalance in
a limit order book. 12 2013. URL `[https://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.0514.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.0514.pdf)` .


F. Lokin and F. Yu. Fill probabilities in a limit order book with state-dependent stochastic order
flows. 03 2024. URL `[https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.02572.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.02572.pdf)` .


C. Maglaras, C. C. Moallemi, and M. Wang. A deep learning approach to estimating fill
probabilities in a limit order book. _SSRN Electronic Journal_, 2021. ISSN 1556-5068. doi:
10.2139/ssrn.3897438. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3897438](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3897438)` .


A. Menkveld. High frequency trading and the new-market makers. _Journal of Financial Markets_, 16
(4):712–740, 2013. ISSN 1386-4181. doi: 10.1016/j.finmar.2013.06.006.


C. C. Moallemi and K. Yuan. A model for queue position valuation in a limit order book.
_SSRN Electronic Journal_, 2016. ISSN 1556-5068. doi: 10.2139/ssrn.2996221. URL `[http:](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996221)`
`[//dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996221](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996221)` .


38


T. Spooner, J. Fearnley, R. Savani, and A. Koukorinis. Market making via reinforcement learning.
In _Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems_,
AAMAS ’18, page 434–442, Richland, SC, 2018. International Foundation for Autonomous
Agents and Multiagent Systems.


S. Stoikov. The micro-price. _SSRN Electronic Journal_, 2017. ISSN 1556-5068. doi: 10.2139/ssrn.
2970694. URL `[http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970694](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970694)` .


39


**A Histograms for Medium-Sized Queues**


Figure 20: Queue position: 0–
10%; medium near-side queue; small
opposite-side queue.


Figure 22: Queue position: 0–10%;
medium near-side queue; medium
opposite-side queue.


40



Figure 21: Queue position: 75–
100%; medium near-side queue; small
opposite-side queue.


Figure 23: Queue position: 75–100%;
medium near-side queue; medium
opposite-side queue.


Figure 24: Queue position: 0–
10%; medium near-side queue; large
opposite-side queue.


Figure 26: Queue position: 0–
10%; small near-side queue; medium
opposite-side queue.


Figure 28: Queue position: 0–
10%; large near-side queue; medium
opposite-side queue.



Figure 25: Queue position: 75–
100%; medium near-side queue; large
opposite-side queue.


Figure 27: Queue position: 75–
100%; small near-side queue; medium
opposite-side queue.


Figure 29: Queue position: 75–
100%; large near-side queue; medium
opposite-side queue.



41


**B Model Coefficients**


Table 5: Coefficients of the logistic regression model grouped by feature categories.


**Feature** **Coefficient value**


**Momentum**


`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.064670
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.025752
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.057328
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.171598
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.017349
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.070002
`trade` `intensity` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w0` -0.028381
`trade` `intensity` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w1` -0.048367
`trade` `intensity` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w2` 0.025111
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.156862
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.002328
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.009059
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.012417
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.006796
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.014250
`trade` `intensity` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.027251
`trade` `intensity` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.048310
`trade` `intensity` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.039917
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.433133
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.261970
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.317830
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.070847
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.016905
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.076009
`trade` `intensity` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.066931
`trade` `intensity` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.044181
`trade` `intensity` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.056927
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w0` 0.111506
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w1` -0.044950
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w2` -0.102125
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w0` -0.020848
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w1` 0.033951
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `0s` `w2` -0.038579
`trade` `intensity` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.310782
`trade` `intensity` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.318268
`trade` `intensity` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.100313
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w0` 0.055847
`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w1` -0.105477


42


**Table 5 (continued)** : Coefficients of the logistic regression model grouped by feature categories.


**Feature** **Coefficient value**


`ret` ~~`a`~~ `utocov` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w2` -0.015074
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.085791
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.048547
`ret` ~~`s`~~ `um` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.010486
`trade` `intensity` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w0` -0.013885
`trade` `intensity` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w1` -0.012627
`trade` `intensity` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w2` -0.012789


**Order Book**


`age` -0.056527
`ob` ~~`a`~~ `sk` ~~`l`~~ `iq` 0.001471
`ob` ~~`b`~~ `id` ~~`l`~~ `iq` -0.187389
`ob` ~~`h`~~ `alf` -0.049546
`ob` ~~`o`~~ `ther` `half` -0.007837
`totb` ~~`m`~~ `ean` -0.198196


**Price Dynamics**


`amplitude` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.134841
`amplitude` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.002490
`amplitude` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.015208
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.054331
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.106379
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.035287
`amplitude` `1s` `w0` 0.009782
`amplitude` `1s` `w1` 0.007194
`amplitude` `1s` `w2` 0.019774
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `1s` `w0` -0.007336
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `1s` `w1` -0.019845
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `1s` `w2` 0.020953
`amplitude` `5s` `w0` 0.103106
`amplitude` `5s` `w1` 0.051163
`amplitude` `5s` `w2` 0.101474
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `5s` `w0` 0.041889
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `5s` `w1` 0.010773
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `5s` `w2` -0.009981
`amplitude` `30s` `w0` -0.025883
`amplitude` `30s` `w1` 0.009798
`amplitude` `30s` `w2` 0.049859
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.051273
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.058798
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.019591
`amplitude` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.041433


43


**Table 5 (continued)** : Coefficients of the logistic regression model grouped by feature categories.


**Feature** **Coefficient value**


`amplitude` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.023701
`amplitude` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.009184
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.033777
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.010073
`ret` ~~`v`~~ `wap` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.017873
`stdev` `100` -0.014769
`stdev` `500` 0.069001


**Trade Volume Patterns**


`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.015398
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.064591
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.001329
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.012507
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.031008
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `100ms` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.004749
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w0` -0.002806
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w1` -0.028945
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w2` 0.044143
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w0` -0.042881
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w1` -0.031871
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w2` -0.010898
`total` `buy` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w0` 0.017631
`total` `buy` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w1` 0.031328
`total` `buy` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w2` -0.025174
`total` `sell` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w0` 0.027392
`total` `sell` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w1` 0.037905
`total` `sell` ~~`1`~~ `00ms` `w2` 0.019188
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `1s` `w0` 0.009413
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `1s` `w1` -0.024575
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `1s` `w2` -0.006610
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `1s` `w0` 0.021593
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `1s` `w1` 0.015751
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `1s` `w2` 0.006351
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.034406
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.046010
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.023821
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.094811
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.024451
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.000842
`total` `buy` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.002977
`total` `buy` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.003422
`total` `buy` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.004587


44


**Table 5 (continued)** : Coefficients of the logistic regression model grouped by feature categories.


**Feature** **Coefficient value**


`total` `sell` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.049719
`total` `sell` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.012063
`total` `sell` ~~`1`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.011760
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `5s` `w0` 0.005391
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `5s` `w1` 0.023364
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `5s` `w2` 0.000746
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `5s` `w0` 0.000672
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `5s` `w1` -0.002132
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `5s` `w2` 0.019611
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.091383
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.026798
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.019723
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.077718
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.094188
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.103399
`total` `buy` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.085354
`total` `buy` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.041604
`total` `buy` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.016422
`total` `sell` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.023385
`total` `sell` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.077652
`total` `sell` ~~`5`~~ `s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.068970
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.053188
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.004395
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.009718
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.002545
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.010833
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `30s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.033334
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.021358
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.046941
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.019813
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.172218
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.098570
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.081075
`total` `buy` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.023254
`total` `buy` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.070232
`total` `buy` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.021899
`total` `sell` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.170826
`total` `sell` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.001023
`total` `sell` ~~`3`~~ `0s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.080049
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.004522
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.024765
`max` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.026390


45


**Table 5 (continued)** : Coefficients of the logistic regression model grouped by feature categories.


**Feature** **Coefficient value**


`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.092860
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.006021
`avg` ~~`s`~~ `ize` `300s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.019310
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `0` -0.077479
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `1` 0.124425
`buy` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `2` 0.017996
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w0` 0.021356
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w1` -0.036636
`sell` ~~`c`~~ `ount` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w2` -0.148054
`total` `buy` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `0` 0.081260
`total` `buy` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `1` -0.129170
`total` `buy` ~~`3`~~ `00s` ~~`w`~~ `2` -0.002067
`total` `sell` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w0` 0.047449
`total` `sell` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w1` -0.008577
`total` `sell` ~~`3`~~ `00s` `w2` 0.147168


46


